makarova slumps back into making unforced errors again as she finds the net with her first forehand of the game , while her second is n't much better as she overhits when attempting to clip the baseline . sharapova hits an accurate serve down the 't ' to bring up three set points . another pinpoint serves proves too difficult to return as the number two seed claims the first set .
just look in her match with heather watson last week , serena is desperate to shake herself into action . she lets out an almighty shriek when she goes 30-15 up , but azarenka responds with a brilliant forehand . the level of williams ' scream goes up and up during the next point , and she lets out another roar when she belts a forehand cross court win the point . she wraps the game up next time round , and she looked something like back to her best there !
sharapova saves a break point to hold her serve . williams made some aggressive returns , but the russian found her stride towards the end of the game , finishing the a great forehand shot .
erakovic is looking superb behind her serve , and she displays her power with a love-service hold . the world number 71 's service games are flying by too fast right now , which is something that robson will have to change or else she will quickly find herself a set behind .
she ca n't save another one and williams is now within a game of levelling the match . the american has n't made a single unforced error in this set .
there 's a ruthlessness about serena today and she is n't prepared to let up . a love hold is complete when cibulkova hooks a backhand return out of court and the slovakian will serve to remain in the opening set .
she is getting stuck into the azarenka serve a little bit , especially when coming to the net , but the belarusian does enough to hold to 30 and move a game away from the first set .
the forehand deserts hampton this time . she got too much on it and the ball sailed past the baseline . it 's not over 'til it 's over ... but it might be over ...
serena still looks sluggish but she at least held serve with relative ease . i do n't think that there is any danger of her pulling out . she will understand that bacsinszky will feel the tension as she looks to make her first final .
muguruza has the chance to reach 0-30 after chasing down a drop shot , but she flicks a forehand just long of the baseline . however , two mistakes from radwanska hand two set points to the spaniard , but she shows a drastic improvement to reel off four points in a row to remain alive in the set .
li smacks a terrible second serve into the tramlines to give the czech set point , and she then goes long to gift her the set . li was very poor there and the czech did enough to take advantage .
robson now has the mini-break as she grinds down clijsters into submission . two holds of serve here would see the brit open up three match points .
wozniacki goes into the net and the russian gets the double break . she is now in compete control of this match and will serve for the first set . wozniacki has no answer to kuznetsova 's power hitting .
kanepi rushes a pair of serves and looks to be a struggling a touch with her ball toss , giving robson an opening at 30-30. the brit fails to capitalise though , showing nerves of her own with a wayward unforced error at the baseline . a challenge from robson then proves fruitless , giving kanepi a hold she desperately needed for confidence .
serena misses out with a backhand down the line and muguruza has 30-0. six points in a row now . that run ends when serena is successful with a backhand on this occasion , but a poor forehand hands the spaniard two game points . both are saved by serena , but muguruza seals the hold with some aggressive play from the baseline .
there has n't been much finesse in this match so far , and it continues at the start of the fifth game , as both players trade huge shots off the ground . williams continues to be the more aggressive , but she makes three more errors , despite dominating the respective rallies .
keys puts williams on the back foot with an excellent serve , which the 33-year-old can not return . keys does it again as she looks in rhythm on her service game , and that continues as the number one seed can lay a racquet on the next serve as it travels with speed down the middle . keys gifts a point to williams with a backhand into the net , but then produces a winner on the next point to secure the hold .
two more superb backhand winners move sharapova 15-30 then 30-40 ahead . however , she fails to convert break point as knapp takes three points in a row and holds .
williams drills down a 122mph serve , and it helps her edge into the lead . the american goes long on the next , indicating that she is struggling with the wind , and a lob on the next drifts long and azarenka is two points away from forcing a decider . oh my ! the wind plays its part again , and williams nets ! two set points to azarenka . a fine serve out wide saves the first , and the second is saved with some superb shots that force azarenka to net !
williams nets in the first point to hand wozniacki 15-0 , before firing long for 30-0. williams then hits the net as wozniacki moves onto 40-0 and the dane holds with a superb ace .
li is now up and running . she responds well from two games down and finishes off her next serve with an ace out wide .
safarova starts with an ace before she outlasts ivanovic is a high-quality rally that ends with a huge winner into the corner . ivanovic gets some good fortune with a net cord to halve the deficit and a double fault from safarova sees the score progress to 30-30. the czech hands ivanovic two opportunities to seal a second break but on both occasions , her first comes up trumps . a third opening for ivanovic also goes begging and safarova is eventually able to hold . that could prove to be an important game .
finally a hold of serve . radwanska is suddenly looking very good - although there was a lot of resistance from the italian . now , two games after serving for the match , she serves to stay in the set .
makarova literally serves up a gift , souble faulting at break point . the second seed now has a second chance to consolidate a break . no-one wants to hold their serve and it 's a bit edgy .
gotcha ! a superb forehand stroke wrong-foots bartoli and sharapova has a break . a hold next time up could spell the end for the bart .
azarenka is struggling with her accuracy , hitting balls out on the first three points of the game to give li triple break point . a backhand winner saves the first , before she reacts well after the sixth seed gets a lucky hit off the net chord . li has the chance to fire her backhand in to an open court , but her effort is low and fails to clear the net , bringing up deuce . a long return from the chinese player gives azarenka advantage , and she seals it with a forehand down the sideline . a missed opportunity for li .
makarova starts with a poor forehand drive as she attempts to go for depth , but overhits her shot . another error from the russian hands halep control of the game at 30-0 , but she manages to rally with a good forehand after working halep around the court and levels the game . halep earns a break point as makarova hits the net again , but halep commits two mistakes to lose the game .
not the best start to the second set for makarova as she slams a forehand into the net , but a mistake from sharapova brings her level . however , an excellent return from the 27-year-old puts the pressure right back on makarova as she finds the net again . two further unforced errors from the number 10 seed hand sharapova the game .
jankovic denies sharapova a possible comeback after taking a 30-0 lead , but she sees out the game with a powerful serve that sharapova puts out of bounds . game to jankovic , but sharapova is now serving for the set .
williams breaks ! she finds the corner with a cracking forehand . nothing errani could do . this is looking ominous .
talk about doing things the hard way . sharapova survives four break points in the end before going on to hold . she leads 2-1 .
fantastic from azarenka . she gets the advantage before scuttling around the court keeping the next point alive . the belarusian then hits a backhand down the line to hold . neither of these two are giving this one up easily .
she holds comfortably to follow up and ivanovic has her second chance to serve for the set . early signs that this one might go to three sets , i reckon .
it was imperative that barty got off to a positive start in this second set , but another winner helps serena to three break points . however , barty shows plenty of fight to take the next two points , the second of which was a forehand winner down the line , but she hits the tape with an attempted backhand winner and she 's going to be up against it from here .
sharapova is finding things much more comfortable on her serve . she holds to 15 , despite a double fault . the next break is crucial in this one .
i swear it 's easier to break serve than hold at the moment ! a poor shot down the line from jankovic hands the advantage back to radwanska . but can she hold ? !
sharapova finds a first serve to start , but she loses the opening point by slamming a backhand low into the net . she then makes amends with a brilliant crosscourt backhand winner , before two knapp errors move the russian 40-15 ahead .
the russian digs deep to hold . she 's the one on the ropes at the moment . most of the aggressive play is coming from wozniacki , while kuznetsova is breathing pretty hard . and grunting hard , too .
dear oh dear , after failing to challenge that ball lisicki drops serve . a double fault moved bartoli 0-40 ahead before an ace saved the first . she ca n't stop bartoli on the next though as her drop shot is easily reached by the 15th seed who then puts away an easy volley presented to her .
jankovic is growing agitated and is trying desperately to get her break back . she twice throws the lead away in the game , before earning a break point when sharapova hits a poor effort out . she managed to use her pace to keep the point alive three times before sharapova meets the ball with a huge swing on the drive volley to send it to deuce . the russian is evidently delighted when taking advantage and she shakes her fist in happiness , but just puts the break point out of bounds to level it up . scenes are repeatedly shortly after though as the serb again hits her shot too long . sharapova moves herself on the verge of victory with a great winner . she really is giving her all .
kvitova tries to change the pace up with a couple of sliced shots , but her backhand hits the net chord before dropping back on her side of the court . pennetta tries to get her opponent moving behind the basline , and it results in a wide effort down the sideline from kvitova . however , the czech has the chance to serve for the opening set next .
williams fails to score a point during her own service game , sharapova is in sensational form . she was never going to secure another 6-0 6-0 today , but it does n't look like she 's going to let too many more games get away from her . this performance will worry a few of the other top seeds .
an unforced error from williams brings up stephens 's first break point . she came into the net after another ferocious serve had stephens just getting the ball back into play , but put her forehand beyond the baseline . serena then went long with another shot and stephens has the break back .
keys continues to be untouchable on her serve as she earns a 30-0 with a forehand winner and an ace down the 't ' . however , radwanska sticks around and carves out a foothold in the game with a fine lob over the american at the net , but then hands the advantage back to the 20-year-old with loose forehand into the net before keys serves out for the win .
kuznetsova displays a great range of shots in a lengthy rally to take a 30-0 lead , eventually catching williams out with a drop shot . the world number one digs deep , running the length of the baseline on more than one occasion to get herself back into the game , which she clinches when kuznetsova returns the ball to the net . williams seems to have put her shaky spell behind her , but the russian has another chance to serve for the set .
break : azarenka forces sharapova backwards with two punishing forehands and the russian finds the net .
excellent tennis all round on the first point of the game as the women exchange several powerful shots before makarova finally works halep over with a fine forehand . a strong serve follows from the russian , but halep forces her way in the game with a venomous strike on a short return from the 26-year-old . mistakes from makarova brings about deuce in the game , but she ups the ante late on to take a 4-2 lead with the aid of a poor shot from the romanian .
usual service restored . jankvoic has to dig in to win her first game of the second set . no set to love for sharapova , but she still leads 2-1 .
a really well worked point finishes the game . she showed a lot more of her first set ability there , and that should encourage her .
keys plays some of her best tennis of the match to hold serve as she works the pole around the court with an impressive array of groundstrokes . she secures the game with a fine shot across the court to regain the lead in the set .
a nice , comfortable hold to kick things off from serena . stephens gets a go now . if she can hold it 'll be a big boost for her .
a fine serve down the middle sees keys win the opening point , but watson responds by forcing her opponent into an error . two more blistering serves take keys to two game points , and she maintains her advantage with another kick-serve that watson ca n't handle .
kerber threw in a couple of strange shots there . lobs from the baseline out of nowhere . she nearly fooled venus on the first one but the second was dispatched with gusto .
lisicki hit two second-serve aces in that game . the second sees her hold serve and this truly is a brilliantly close match . lisicki has hit 14 winners to williams 's five !
for the first time in four games on philippe chatrier , we have had a hold of serve . sharapova double faults again , but she makes amends and holds to 40 for a 4-2 lead .
this time she does break . radwanska puts a backhand into the net , and if watson wins her service game there will be a touch of pressure on the pole .
a dodgy toss results in a double fault at 40-0 but the german makes up for that with a booming first serve on the next to match radwanska in holding to 15 .
tha early break does n't seemed to have affected serena . she gets the hold thanks to an ace to stay on azarenka 's case . pressure back on the belarusian .
the top seed wins the first two points of the match , before two backhand unforced errors level the opening game at 30-30. hantuchova 's backhand then misfires , handing williams game point , which she converts with the match 's first ace .
pennetta senses a chance to get an early break on the board in the second set after taking a 30-15 lead . she plays a drop shot , which is well executive , but kvitova shows remarkable pace coming into the net to get it back in play , before making her seventh double fault of the afternoon to take the game to deuce . kvitova does n't seem comfortable at all as she calls for her towel between points to dry her hands before slicing a forehand into the net to give pennetta a chance to break , but a backhand winner keeps her in the game . an ace gives kvitova advantage though , before pennetta 's return goes long to allow the czech to escape with her serve intact .
williams looks really unsettled by kuznetsova 's strong start to this second set . an uncharacteristic shot from the top seed finds the net , but a couple of poor returns from the russian keep her in the game . another mis-hit forehand from the american gives kuznetsova a chance to take another break point . after a lengthy rally , williams loses her footing sprinting to the corner of the court . she makes the return , but leave the court wide open for kuznetsova to smash the ball past her .
that 's gutsy from lisicki there . she holds and it 's over to radwanska now . remember , there 's no tie-break in the final set so we carry on with the service games .
at times , safarova 's hitting has been phenomenal but when finding her best form , ivanovic has matched her and two winners help her keep hold of her serve .
serena opens with a double fault but she responds with a piece of magic . she switches hand to remain in the rally with a forehand before grinding out the point . the next two points are shared for 30-30 , before safarova goes just wide with a return . she should have made that . serena holds when her opponent nets a backhand and she is closing in on a third roland garros crown . we 've said that before though ...
stunning defensive play from azarenka , who withstands the pressure from williams before unleashing a forehand pass for 0-15. the american fights back for 30-15 , but she over-hits another forehand to give azarenka a sniff at 30-30. however , she ca n't capitalise , and williams levels things up at 2-2 .
double break ! this set looks to be in the bag for williams as lisicki attempts a drop shot after a big serve but pulls it wide .
back to basics for cetkovska on serve and it quickly pays dividends . simple shots at either side of the court leave wozniacki a sitting duck at the baseline , with the ninth seed unable to push off her left foot and chase down shots in a lengthy rally . at this rate a match that looked so promising could be over pretty quickly .
doi opens up with a double fault , but gets back on track for 15-15. however , she fires two forehands long of the baseline to hand kvitova two break points . she saves them both , but after conceding a third , she nets and the number seven seed has the early advantage .
we get to witness a couple of decent rallies , as well as a stunning forehand return from kerber to force deuce . kerber then pulls off a superbly disguised drop shot that stopped dead . there are a lot of unforced errors from both women , but makarova finally finishes off the game with a good serve and volley . a big game in the scale of this match that .
two break points for the german .
it 's not pretty but sharapova battles back from 0-30 to hold . you can tell that means a lot as she pumps her fists ferociously at the ground .
you have to admire sharapova for her determination to get to every shot but it has cost her in stages . she slips to a 40-15 disadvantage but gets lucky after catching the net . she then hammers an unbelievable return to take it to deuce in search of a break . however , jankovic takes the game after the russian slams the ball into the net . 3-2 to the serve .
williams starts the next game with an ace but bacsinszky shows her confidence by plucking the ball out of the air to convert a drive volley . she holds comfortably enough though , but she 's hardly sprinting back to her chair .
superb recovery from makarova ! she sends sharapova all over the court and finishes with a forehand winner . we 're back with serve and sharapova does n't know what has hit her .
williams holds to move within one game of victory .
after the first two points are shared , keys swings an ace out wide before venus drives the following return long of the baseline . a second ace in the game wraps it up for keys , who is looking increasingly composed on the rod laver arena .
this time it 's errani 's turn to dominate points on the radwanska serve , but she spins a forehand into the tramlines with the chance to go 15-40 up . instead radwanska is wins the next point but errani forces deuce by really going after the second serve . errani earns a break point with a sumptuous lob and the takes it with the pole going long ! advantage back with the italian , then .
williams catches sharapova out with a brilliant drop shot , but the russian claims the next point by smashing a forehand winner down the sideline . the defending champion tries to keep herself in the game with a drop shot of her own , but williams sees it coming , and gets to the net in time to make the return and clinch the game .
a really important hold for bartoli there . she battles back from 30-40 down to win the game . if either player can claim a break now , it could be decisive in this set .
monsterous forehand from venus gets it to deuce .
vesnina again doing a little better , but a carelessly long forehand gives azarekna break-point . vesnina saves it with some good defensive work before a fantastic backhand gives her advantage . another great point , finished with a backhand , and she 's on the board .
make that 0/3 ! williams saves another break point and then holds to 40 courtesy of some brutal power hitting . hantuchova must now serve to stay in the set .
a couple of brilliant returns from the world number six give her a 30-0 lead . a good backhand gives li a break point , which she takes when azarenka gets her shot stuck at the net . both players clearly suffering from nerves in the early stages of this match .
williams holds to 15. a ripple of subdued , polite applause is heard from the crowd , who are clearly disappointed with the non-contest that they are observing .
good start from vinci , who forces her opponent into an error at the net for 30-0 , but the american strikes back to get to 30-30. williams is sensing a break point but credit to vinci , who holds after her opponent sends a forehand long .
first serves are doing the business for robson too ! the brit , who has won 11 of 11 points behind her first serve , holds to love to edge ahead once again .
it looks like a good job by the medical team , as li moves effortlessly around the court to quickly wrap up the two points she needed to take the game .
williams thumps a return straight back azarenka for 0-15 , but two glaring errors allow her opponent back into the game . it 's all or nothing for williams at the moment , replying with a forehand winner after another mistake , before forcing deuce with a sharp return . huge cross-court winner from serena , who looks in the zone now . it 's break point , which is taken when she clips the line with a return from a second serve .
the dane shows plenty of fight to save set point , showing neat touch at the net once more to close out just her second service game of the match . cetkovska will serve for the first set but before that can happen wozniacki has called for the trainer again , clearly still in some pain with that strained left ankle .
the match 's first ace and two missed returns help knapp establish a 40-0 lead . sharapova wins the next point , but loses the game by sending a powerful forehand into the net .
at 40-15 niculescu again finds the net in what has to be an unforced error , but wins it with a superb push to the corner and she 's flying !
hampton 's back problem is clearly evident now , as she swings at the ball rather than the fluid motion we 've become accustomed to in this match . azarenka edges ahead .
another double fault ! two in a row from bartoli gifts the opening break of the match to lisicki .
that 's an important hold for li from 0-30 down . she picked up her game and managed to extract a bit of the momentum that cibulkova had built from her earlier forehand .
in the end it 's a huge hold from li to consolidate the break . she 's been so strong here and instead of crumbling at break point down turns the pressure into an advantage . two games away from reaching the final .
okay , i give in ! i have no idea which way this match is going to go . jankovic breaks straight back when she looked to have run out of ideas . we could be here all night at this rate !
robson looks to play positively from the start , and it earns her the first point of the match , but four consecutive errors gift the new zealand player the opening game .
azarenka holds after a bludgeoning rally at 40-30 ends with ivanovic dumping a forehand into the net .
the pair trade mistakes for 15-15 , but erakovic shows some raw power with a forehand winner . she follows that by going close with a cross-court backhand , but a huge , huge forehand from the baseline brings up break point . she has taken the shackles off , but she ca n't convert her opportunity , and it 's deuce . robson is struggling to get over the line in this one , and a wild forehand give her opponent a second break point , but the brit steps in to save it once again . however , she ca n't save another , and erakovic recovers one of the breaks . this is n't over .
it would have been easy for hantuchova to capitulate , but she keeps herself together and holds to 30 , hitting an ace and a glorious backhand winner in the process .
match ! williams moves 15-0 ahead after a forehand error from the swiss before she shows that she actually has a bit of energy left with the shot of the match , a cross-court forehand that left bacsinszky stretching for thin air in the centre of the court . she follows that with a big first serve for three match points but bacsinszky shows heart in prevailing from a baseline exchange to save the first . she ca n't save the second after drilling a shot long and serena records her 10th successive game to book her place in saturday 's final .
knapp holds to 30 from the sunny end !
as expected , vinci uses her experience to push the eighth game forward at great pace . she moves into a 40-15 lead , before closing out a vital period with an ace !
it 's a nice and easy hold for her and the early momentum in the set seems to have gone her way .
kirilenko looks in full control at 40-15 but the world number 113 allows her compatriot back into the game , and after she makes an unforced error to give sharapova a set point , the fifth seed capitalises on the opening with a drive volley at the net to take the first set after 53 minutes .
another williams hold to 15. she is one game away from taking the opening set with just 21 minutes on the clock .
match ! doi takes the opening point , but some super hitting takes kvitova to within two points of the win . she nets for 30-30 , but doi goes long off a return to hand the number seven seed match point , which she takes with a huge winner down the line .
a solid effort from the russian to hold serve in her opening service game , with kvitova happy to ease her way in with a cautious start at the baseline .
vandeweghe is determined to give herself a chance in this match , firing a couple of terrific returns towards her opponent , before a double fault from sharapova gives the american three break points . the russian is cautious with her save to save the first , taking some pace off it , but vandeweghe gets the better of the former champion in a thrilling baseline rally , getting the set back on serve , and she urges the crowd to make more noise as she gets ready to serve in the next game .
halep starts well in the game as he quickly races into a 30-0 lead with a couple of strong forehands , which makarova fails to return . however , the russian hits back strongly is able to tie the game with some excellent tennis of her own as she works the romanian around the court . two mistakes from halep come at the worst possible time as the 10th seeds earns another break . we 're in exactly the same situation as the first set .
williams opens with an ace , before a forehand out wide causes garcia to slip . the top seed is distracted by her opponent 's fall and smashes her return long . thankfully , garcia seems to be uninjured . the american makes another ace , before the 19-year-old slices her return just long on the next point .
and indeed it does n't happen . half way through the set and i 've no idea who 'll claim it .
kim won the toss and elected to serve . here we go ...
some great defence manages to keep muguruza for much longer than should be possible , but williams keeps her eye on drive volley to take the point . the response is emphatic as muguruza meets the drop with a fine passing forehand . it 's the only bright moment in the game for her though . williams finishes the hold off with the ace . she 's getting better with every game that passes .
sharapova looks like she 's in trouble at 30-15 down and vandeweghe dominating from the baseline . the russian challenges a vandeweghe forehand though , and hawkeye confirms that the ball was long . sharapova uses a couple of huge serves to vandeweghe 's forehand to see the game out , and she 's just one more off a spot in the semi-finals .
azarenka struggled with her serve in the first game , but she serves beautifully this time around , racing to 40-15 as she forces a long return from williams , before sealing the game with her first ace of the match .
hantuchova breaks : the azarenka backhand continues to misfire , allowing hantuchova to reach deuce . the 30-year-old then hits a sumptuous drop shot to earn break point , which is saved as azarenka 's temperamental backhand cracks a winner . however , hantuchova volleys well at the net to earn another break point , before azarenka throws the game away with her third double fault of the night .
radwanska comes back from 0-15 and 15-30 , but at 30-30 , the power of muguruza is on show once again and it 's enough to earn her the chance for the double break . she gets a look at a second serve , but her return goes a couple of feet wide . radwanska reaches game point with the first ace of the semi-final before converting a volley to get on the board .
kuznetsova plays some superb shots from the back of the court , leaving williams sprinting behind the baseline . however , some impressive play from the net ensures that it 's another hold for the world number one . despite the scoreline , she has been made to work by the russian in the opening five games of this match .
williams makes her second double fault of the match , but turns to her backhand to get her back in the game , while also serving an ace down the middle of the court . williams relies on her big serve again to wrap up the game , with the frenchwoman unable to make the return .
serena is motoring now . she 's stormed back to grab the initiative in this second set . she 's on course for a meeting with maria kirilenko .
at 30-30 , pennetta has to get down low to lift the ball back across the net , but she hits it long to give kvitova the first chance to get a break on the board in this set , and she gifts the fifth seed to game when she blasts her forehand well long off the next point .
no , is the answer to that as bouchard bashes a forehand up the line that ivanovic ca n't return .
she only needs one ! ivanovic has completely lost her way . at 5-2 on serve she was in control , but has hardly won a point since then and is in danger of losing the set .
better from ivanovic as she holds to love to get on the board .
wow ! gutsy play from the american . a big second serve helped her set up game point , and she found another forehand winner after stepping up to the net . she 's now just one game from levelling the score .
it 's imperative that ivanovic stops the rot and she does so in emphatic fashion with a hold to 15 which is completed with a cross-court forehand winner .
the crowd is really getting behind vandeweghe as they clearly want another set of this match . the american fight hard , forcing sharapova to sprint the length of the baseline to try to keep herself in a rally , which vandeweghe took the point from , and a double fault from sharapova brings up deuce . vandeweghe shows excellent reactions at the net to hit a string of volleys , but each time she hits is straight at sharapova , eventually allowing the fourth seed to fire the winner past her opponent , and a big second serve ensures that sharapova remains a break ahead .
indeed she does break back . after losing the first eight points of the set , na has now won six of the next eight . this odd game continues .
robson hits a forehand into the net before firing one past her opponent up the line . the players then share a couple of baseline rallies , before the dane hits a forehand of her own long . an ace saves break-point and wozniacki wraps the game up as her opponent hits a backhand wide .
azarenka gets her first hold of serve in the match . at 30-30 , li over-hits a couple of balls , handing azarenka the game , but she will now get the chance to serve for the set .
that game looks to have taken a lot out of serena 's legs and she wastes little energy on the first two points which bring mixed results . however , she gets into the next two rallies and the errors come from bacsinszky , and the break is sealed with a brilliant backhand return .
a superb forehand groundstroke from vinci helps her to a 30-0 lead , but she lets li back into the game with a poor shot from behind the baseline , which finds the net . a strong return from the chinese player helps her level the score before a brilliant forehand gives her another break point . a wide forehand from li allows the italian to save a break point for the first time in this match , but the sixth seed gets another chance , and wins the game by calmly returning a drop shot from vinci .
parity has been restored . if jankovic fails to hold her serve next , it could spell the end of her campaign in new york .
radwanska keeps up the pressure and forces an error on the forehand side to break at the first possible opportunity . a dream start for the fourth seed .
all square in set two as azarenka holds to 30. hantuchova had chances in that game .
this is slowly turning in the favour of williams and although she wastes two set points , she takes her third opportunity to level the match . if she can last the pace , there is only one winner from here .
but it 's stephens who edges back in front in this second set .
li 's serve is better this time around , finding the first ace of the match . the chinese player has more power than azarenka and she uses it to good effect to force mistakes from her opponent . however , a shot to the net from the sixth seed brings up deuce , but two long shots from the world number one give li the first hold of the match .
kvitova is starting to look a little weary , making yet another double fault before carelessly hitting her forehand into the net , giving pennetta a chance to break . the italian tries to seal it with a drop shot , but kvitova sprints in to to it to deuce . the fifth seed misses a backhand though , allowing the italian to seal with with a stunning backhand down the line . she 'll serve the level the match next .
jankovic is doing all she can to deny sharapova this set , as she hammers her way to a 40-15 lead . sharapova then just missed the baseline on the break point to hand jankovic the set .
it 's another break and again watson is too slow to get into the game . she seems to have given up the ghost . they should have played in the rain , there 'd have been home advantage for watson . two more games to go for radwanska .
some great shots from both players in that game , but it 's williams who comes out on top as cornet slices her backhand in to the net .
vandeweghe puts in one of her best service games of the match , putting some decent power behind the ball . at 40-15 , sharapova tries to makes a rare trip into the net , but she gets the volley all wrong , handing the american the game . at the change of ends , vandeweghe is complaining amount sharapova moving during her ball toss again , and informs the umpire that `` if you do n't talk to her then i will , it 's not a problem . ''
wozniacki 's first ace of the match sees over the line .
pennetta appears to be caught in two minds now and it 's doing her game no good at all . she misses a routine backhand before standing too far behind the baseline to allow vinci to easily smash the ball out of her reach for two game points . pennetta starts to show a bit of aggression but it 's vinci 's game after a one-two off serve .
this is as good as ivanovic has played in some time . a crushing baseline winner is followed by two aces and although she loses a lengthy exchange on the next point , she holds to 15 for the third successive service game .
after conceding the opening point , pennetta finally shows a bit more authority by advancing into court to put away a smash , but she 's lucky to survive when vinci misses out with a forehand . vinci gets to deuce but another miscued forehand is her downfall before pennetta takes the game with a backhand winner into the open court . this final has n't really got going so far .
serena consolidates her break by holding to 15 .
clijsters somehow comes through ( again ! ) and we 're into another tie-break . the arthur ashe crowd are fully behind kim .
a strong response from the russian sees her comfortably take her service game . a series of fast serves from kirilenko causes problems for williams , who did n't seem prepared for so much power from her opponent .
aggression and quite magnificent hitting get the youngster out of deep trouble on serve . two wide serves are followed up by a precise volley at the net to force deuce , with bartoli biting right back to aim a fine forehand pass across court . more gutsy play at the net earns a tough hold for the 20-year-old .
break back ! watson produces some brilliant shots , which she desperately needs to , to give herself a 30-15 lead , but cirstea gets a lucky hit off the net chord to take the next point . however , it goes in watson 's favour in the next rally to give her her first break point of the match , and cirstea slices the ball into the net to let watson get the set back on serve . could this be the start of the comeback ?
that could be crucial ! what a game we have at the moment . both players are giving their all to take the initiative . twice sharapova goes ahead in the game , and took the score to 40-15 with a top-class forehand after reading jankovic 's moves well . she gave herself two break points , and finally managed to break jankovic after the latter hit her shot out . telling point of the match .
watson takes the opening point , but keys lets go with a stunning return of serve . however , watson maintains her composure with two superb serves out wide to bring up game point , and the first service-hold of the set is complete with a third .
a second-serve ace gets williams back to 15-15 after dropping the opening point , but a forehand into the net gives sharapova a look at 15-30. serena responds how a champion does , though , with three aggressive points to keep the pressure on the sharapova serve .
some mistakes are beginning to come from muguruza now , and two in a row allow radwanska to reach 0-30. like her previous service game , a serve out wide halves the deficit before radwanska wilts after another bombardment from the baseline . however , the pole earns her first break point of the match when her opponent nets , and it 's taken when the spaniard does the same off her backhand wing . that could be huge .
however , azarenka follows suit on her forehand and the russian breaks right back . brilliant response and she does n't seem to be too affected by the injury .
hampton breaks ! amazing scenes on rod laver . the crowd are absolutely loving it , while azarenka looks ready to burst .
vesnina finally starts to engage in rallies , using azarenka 's pace to return well off the serve . she makes it to deuce before a big forehand and an un-returned serve make it 4-0 .
another confident display from robson , who stays calm at 40-30 on second serve to grind out a crucial hold . kanepi still looks a tad tentative and stubbornly refuses to leave the baseline , with the first set still very much on serve .
the 19-year-old falls 0-15 behind , but she draws an encouraging response from the crowd with two points in a row , the second of which is a cross-court backhand winner . she brings up two game points when erakovic nets a first serve , and the brit is on the board when the new zealander goes long from the baseline .
williams starts the game with a double-fault to hand wozniacki 0-15 , but responds with a forehand passing shot . wozniacki then hits two forehands long of the baseline to hand williams 40-15 and the american holds with a sensational volley .
fantastic shot from cibulkova ! li is surely winning a point with a big forehand but an even quicker one comes back to force the error from her . the 20th seed then hits a lovely one-two to set up the game , before another double fault . not to worry for her , though , as she claims her third straight game to edge ahead in the match .
jankovic responds with a comprehensive hold to love . she needed that to get a foothold in the set .
what a start for the bulgarian ! she works a point nicely at advantage to slap a winner across court and take the break at the first time of asking . could there be an upset on the cards here ?
a good hold from hampton there . azarenka got in , but she kept her cool and finished the game off . still might to have enough to win this , but her forehand looks pretty tasty .
superb way to hold for the pole . she bends low to angle an in-to-out forehand near the line . li sprints across and gets it back but radwanska is at the net and puts away the volley .
make that 5-0 as williams holds to love again . we have been playing for just over 18 minutes . scary .
an unforced error lets li off the hook and she 's now one away from taking the win . it 's been a slog , and she still has to break remember .
sharapova records just her second ace to make it to 30-15 before serena goes long with a return . the russian then comes up with a forehand winner on the run and that 's a much better start to the set .
azarenka pulls off a lovely drop-shot to clinch the break . will that knock the fight out of ana ?
again errani does n't make the most of a smash opportunity , but goes on to win the point by staying at the net and finishing with the stop volley . what a backhand ! errani emphatically holds on to the break with a booming shot down the line - radwanska did n't move .
li is in complete control from the baseline to bring up deuce , before a drop shot forces a wide shot from vinci , giving the sixth seed a chance for another break . a poor shot to the net from the italian ensures that li takes the game .
stosur holds for a 1-0 lead . positive start from robson also . she produced a couple of winners which will have given her opponent something to ponder .
a love service game wraps up the first set for the fourth seed in just 28 minutes .
after that , makarova does indeed manage to hold to go 4-2 up . it was good to finally see some fight from the german .
the chinese manages to hold at the third attempt though with an assured forehand volley .
from the terrible to the brilliant from radwanska , who improvises a backhand smash to claim the break back at the first time of asking . a really interesting battle this , so far .
sharapova has made far too many double faults in this match , and she makes another at the start of this game , before some more stunning groundstrokes from vandeweghe bring up two break points for the unseeded american . sharapova saves the first with an ace down the centre line , before a long return from vandeweghe brings up deuce . vandeweghe gets another break point with an excellent return down the sideline though , before sharapova hits her forehand too low , handing the american the game . the deciding set is now back on serve !
ivanovic looks rejuvenated after reaching 0-30 thanks to a double fault and forehand winner , but she is desperately disappointed with a weak backhand into the net . safarova then produces a out-swinging first serve that is miscued by ivanovic before the serbian frames a backhand from the back of the court . safarova misses two chances to seal the game but on the third opening , ivanovic nets a forehand . she may rue that opportunity .
that 's how you want to serve for a set ! an ace out wide finishes it and we 're into a decider . pironkova has a problem with her foot and has called for the trainer - he or she has a long way to come , so there will be a short break .
williams looked to have started the game well , claiming the opening point with a superb back hand . but a series of excellent returns from the defending champion gave her two break points . the pair get into a lengthy rally , but the american fires her backhand wide , giving sharapova an early break . the russian has never defended a grand slam title , but she 's made the perfect start here .
she does it the hard way , but sharapova gets the hold to stay just one break behind azarenka .
too good from azarenka . she saves two break points before sealing the hold with a sweet forehand winner .
sharapova 's service game has gotten better throughout the game as bouchard ca n't return the first , while the canadian then produces a loose shot to hand the russian a 30-0 lead . another excellent serve does n't give bouchard a chance as the russian nails her shot with pinpoint accuracy before she seals the set as the 20-year-old 's sails long . the number two seed is closing in on victory .
these two are exchanging some mighty blows . stephens eventually wins through after a couple of deuces .
the nerves get to makarova at the start of the game as he makes a couple of poor mistakes to allow the halep a chance at breaking back like the first set . however , she manages to regroup to hit back at the romanian to take the game to deuce . a forehand winner earns halep a break point , but the 10th seed comes roaring back to win two straight points to take the game and surely now the match .
radwanska is n't being moved by the power of her opponent and she moves to 40-0 without response . keys managed to get one point in , but the polish star soon has everyone smiling with a crafty forehand winner .
well , well , well - i did n't see that coming . jankovic not only breaks straight back , but she does it empathetically to love . have to say breaks of serve have been extremely frequent in the women 's game during this tournament .
an easy hold in the first game of this match .
break back ! well , well . you 'd have thought that clijsters 's experience would mean that she would n't mimic robson in double-faulting on break point . nope , she does just that and we 're back level in the second .
thank you sian , and what a match this is turning into folks ! williams finds her first serve again as he moves 15-0 up , before she cracks an unbelievable backhand down the line . azarenka hits a superb return to get to 30-15 , but the top seed sees the game out with some big serving .
li is battling back . a double fault from the czech moves the chinese 15-40 up and she takes the break back at the first time of asking . not good serving from either player so far .
the points have been relatively short in this game as keys earns the first off an error from williams , and she continues to land her first serve in to put the pressure on the 33-year-old . williams earns a point back late in the game to apply some pressure , but keys produces an ace at the right moment to secure another important hold .
williams finally seems to have re-focused at the start of the game , as she gets it underway with an ace , before another powerful serve forces a wide shot from kuznetsova . the russian then returns her backhand to the net , but two long balls from the american , following some strong forehand shots from kuznetsova , get the world number 40 back in this game , before another long shot brings up deuce . williams finds the net while attempting a forehand to bring up a break point for kuznetsova , but a long return takes the game back to deuce . williams finds a big serve to take advantage , before a wide effort from the russian gives williams the game . she 'll be relieved to have held that after letting a 40-0 lead slip .
williams continues her improvement with a dominant hold to 15. as long as she keeps this up , she will believe that chances will arise on muguruza 's serve as she attempts to win her first set in a grand slam final .
match ! two kirilenko errors see sharapova move to within two points of the match , but kirilenko halves the deficit when sharapova goes long . however , the fifth seed produces a fantastic forehand winner down the line to bring up two match point and when kirilenko double faults , the 2006 winner can celebrate moving through to the second round .
a hold to love sees bartoli make her experience count to claim successive game since the resumption , winning six points in a row in the process . stephens is yet to get going since that rain delay and needs to find a hold desperately in her next service game .
the belarusian holds . massive game coming up for ivanovic . she needs to hold .
out of nothing , we have a break . stephens did well to recover and save two break points , but the third was put into the net by stephens and williams breaks at a good time . it was a simple upping of the ante and immediate success .
williams hits her first ace of the match with just her second serve , before azarenka catches the ball with the frame of her racquet . at 40-0 , azarenka can only slice the ball into the net on the return , handing williams a comfortable hold .
how 's that for your first game in a grand slam final ? vinci breezes to a hold to love but pennetta did n't look great in that game .
strong resolve there from the german . she serves it out after that slight wobble . just over half an hour that one took .
serena has hit eight aces and 16 winners so far . not bad , huh ? the world number one begins the second set with successive points to earn 0-30 but cibulkova responds with an ace . however , serena brings up two break points but a couple of confident points from her opponent take the game to deuce . that belief may have disappeared with two shots into the net though , and serena keeps up her momentum .
after the opening two points are shared , muguruza ca n't convert a difficult smash to concede 15-30 but she lucky with a net cord on a drive volley on the next point . muguruza reaches game point , but radwanska moves her around the court before converting a forehand winner . the spaniard eventually holds after catching the back of the line with a backhand , but it was anything but easy .
robson hits long and that could be curtains for the 18-year-old . you feel an instant break back is an absolute must .
again it is a strong start from kvitova as she moves 15-0 ahead when bouchard nets , before whipping another forehand past bouchard for 30-0. a smash at the net makes the score 40-0 and kvitova holds when bouchard nets once more . wow .
pressure volleying at the net puts vinci ahead on mladenovic 's serve , who responds by coming up strong with a whipped forehand into the corner to level the scores . more errors from the frenchwoman present vinci with break point , but she shows strength with neat placement to bring deuce . a stunning exchange at the net allows mladenovic to go ahead on advantage , with a hold being completing following an ace .
some fantastic shots from williams help her to a 30-0 advantage , but sharapova digs deep to get herself back in the game , but she hits her backhand into the net to give williams a break point , and the american takes the break when a sharapova forehand goes long on the next point . the pressure seems to be getting to the russian at the moment .
at the second time of asking in the game , li nets and the czech player breaks , and has her nose in front again .
vandeweghe looks like she 's made a good start as she watches sharapova return her first serve long , before stepping into the baseline to hit a forehand to the back corner . the american tries one too many attempts to get into the net though , allowing sharapova to lob the ball over her opponent . vandeweghe goes for an overhead smash , but takes it a touch too late and hits it into the net , giving sharapova a chance to get an early break on the board , but the russian 's return is long . at deuce , a long forehand from vandeweghe gives the fourth seed another chance , and she takes this one as vandeweghe hits the ball into the net .
ivanovic tries her best to attack the bouchard serve but the canadian 's defence is just too good and she moves within one game of the first set .
a closely-fought game sees the score head to deuce . li gives azarenka a break point after getting her backhand caught at the net , before sending a shot long on the next point to drop her serve at the start of the second set .
no real threat from bouchard on the ivanovic serve since that initial break . the canadian does n't need to break though , it 's ivanovic who needs to step it up when receiving .
terrific attacking play at the net from kvitova sees the eighth seed claim her fourth successive game and start the second set on a positive note . makarova has just been a step behind since we restarted on court one , but has a chance to build confidence now back on serve .
cibulkova finds the line with a risky forehand , but she has less luck when going for too much on the next point . serena is almost too relaxed when attempting a drop shot - it barely reaches the net - and she lets out a shriek after the next rally after missing an easy forehand . cibulkova holds to 15 to at least stay competitive in this match , but it 's a long , long way back against a player that she has never beaten in four attempts .
more fight from wozniacki but her efforts amount to little , with cetkovsa smashing a forehand winner across court for to consolidate her break . you feel that the dane simply had to maximise that opportunity to break , but the ninth seed looks unable to compete in lengthy rallies on that swollen ankle .
break : great fightback by azarenka , who forces the game to deuce with some ultra-agressive hitting . however , the belarusian then makes two sloppy errors to hand the game to sharapova .
li wraps up her best service hold of the game , and that was an important one too to stop the rot of games against her . can she get back into her opponent 's serve now ?
we 're seeing more rallies now , which is to be as expected with these two . errani battles from 40-15 down to within a shot of deuce , but she fluffs a high smash into the tramlines to give radwanska the game .
a solid service game from sharapova , she 's running away with this set at the moment
we 're starting to see a much more animated williams as she punches the air in delight after a brilliant forehand winner off the serve early in the game . another winner follows to put the pressure on muguruza , who hands her rival two break points with a wild forehand . it 's another error which hands the game to williams . is there any stopping the world number one now ?
the first is saved with a fine controlled smash , before radwanska goes long on the second . there 's no mistake with the third , though , with a stunning backhand winner down the line . first blood radwanska .
double break ! dear me , what a nightmare afternoon it 's turning out to be for lisicki . she 's broken again and bartoli wo n't believe her luck . yes , she 's handled the pressure better but has n't had to come up against much today .
cirstea is barely tested as she cruises to another hold of serve , finishing the game with back-to-back aces . it still looks like both players are easing themselves into this tie , with neither really pushing for an early break .
my word . after taking the opening point , williams double faults ... twice in a row . vinci should have two break points but she misses a backhand volley at the net . such a let off for williams . the american makes it to game point , but it 's her turn to make a blunder on a backhand volley . williams gets a second game point with an ace registering 126mph but vinci 's response is insane ! she completes a 20-shot rally with the deftest of volleys and puts her hand to her ear to address the new york crowd . brave ! what a point though . vinci has the momentum and she breaks through when williams goes long with a forehand !
azarenka is starting to look much stronger in this second set than in the previous one . some devastating returns from the world number one are too much for li to control , giving azarenka break point . another strong return from the belarusian sees li 's reply fly long .
these two are blowing hot and cold at the moment . just as cornet looked like she may be crumbling , a series of double faults by williams gives her a chance to break and she takes it . this set looks like it will be won by whichever player makes the fewest errors .
break back ! radwanska picks up the pace in the next rally and looks like she 's going to bring it back to deuce but lisicki earns the break with a stunning crosscourt forehand .
the decibel level of sharapova 's shrieks is getting higher by the point and the number five seed produces two forehand winners that fly past her opponent . kirilenko then slices wide to get sharapova three break-back points , but the first is saved with a well-directed forehand out wide . she ca n't save a second , though , and sharapova is back on level terms after kirilenko goes wide .
kvitova takes the first point , but two unforced errors hand doi a chance at 15-30. the czech left-hander then nets to hand doi two break points , but kvitova shows fine defensive play to get back to deuce . an ace then brings up set point , before a thunderous forehand is too hot to handle for doi .
the american keeps her cool and keeps her nose in front . work to be done for vika .
well i was n't expecting that i have to say ! sharapova starts sluggishly again , allowing bartoli to go an early break up .
williams screams to the heavens after finally hitting her target with a first serve before she advances to 30-0 with a backhand winner . safarova halves the deficit with a winner of her own but williams level with first serve and an ace . she 's back ... maybe .
a series of well-constructed points earn makarova a hold to love . no signs of nerves on court one from the world number 27 , who uses a strong left-handed backhand to finish things off at the baseline . kvitova has been slow to start often this season and will need to find her intensity quickly to progress .
some solid serving , along with a couple of unforced errors from robson gives wozniacki a commanding first-set lead .
well , well . she may have been thrashed during the opening set , but stosur is a break up early in the second . a sign of tension from azarenka perhaps ?
a huge serve finishes another comfortable service game . although stephens did manage one point from it . she 's already done better than most players can hope to against the powerhouse that is wiliams .
it 's a shaky start for the young brit . two double faults and two unforced errors give kvitova an easy break .
ivanovic is getting twitchy on serve and starts the 11th game of this match with a double fault . a second follows to give safarova a look at 15-30 and it 's more two break points for safarova after the serbian blasts the ball into the net . safarova is all over the next return and just like that , she will serve for the first set .
williams finds some fight as she hits a series of stunning forehand winners to bring up two break points . she gives herself a talking to before preparing to take the first , but it does n't work , as some brilliantly-timed strokes from the back of the court from kuznetsova bring up deuce . williams gets another chance to break as she flicks a backhand volley past the russian , and wins the game when the russian hits her forehand into the net .
break back ! neither woman looks particularly confident on serve at the moment as azarenka double-faults for a third and then fourth time to gift ivanovic the break back .
azarenka breaks : i said earlier that hantuchova 's serve can often be a tough nut to crack - not on this occasion ! solid and composed hitting from the belarusian is enough to break to love , as her opponent makes four forced errors .
williams is really going for the power on her forehand early on in this match , but she twice overhits the ball , before landing one perfectly on the sideline , which the belarusian can only slot into the net as she stretches to reach it . williams gets another point back , but azarenka comes into the net for a volley , which the world number one can only scuff into the net .
keys feels the heat from the russian as she commits two unforced errors when she serves to stay in the set . her serve returns at just the right moment with two powerful efforts down the 't ' to tie the game at 30-30. however , keys then commits a double fault to hand radwanska a set point , but she hits back with a well-played point before hitting a cross-court winner on her forehand . the pole carves out two further set points , but a wide backhand and a sublime sliced volley at the net from keys keep peg the game back to deuce . the 20-year-old sends the set to a tie-breaker by sealing the final two points with solid forehands .
she does indeed get one on the board and she forces radwanska to serve for the match . that 's all you can ask for at this stage of the contest .
sheer power from sharapova as she bludgeons a forehand across the court to secure the a 15-0 lead , but makarova matches her stroke for stroke on the second point to level the game . the 2008 champion double faults twice in a row to gift two break points to makarova , who misses by centimetres on an attempted forehand winner down the line to cost herself one , while sharapova brings about deuce with an ace . the 10th seed misses twice in a row with forehands down the line as sharapova claims the hold and will have a chance to break for the match .
safarova needs to put that previous game to the back of her mind and she appears to have done just that with a blistering return winner . she moves to 15-30 but what a remarkable response from ivanovic , who crushes a backhand winner into the corner . it 's equally as good from safarova though , and after driving a huge forehand down the line , she takes the break point when ivanovic goes wide . safarova 's going to serve for a place in the final for a second time !
very good from ivanovic . she 's winning the majority of rallies over a few shots and it looking very quick on the floor so far .
break : a third consecutive unforced error sees azarenka forfeit game seven . the belarusian has handed in her notice . this should be over very shortly .
williams takes the first set as she fires an ace down the 't ' which keys can only guide out . an excellent tie-breaker from both players .
li hangs on after deuce and radwanska now to serve to take this into a breaker .
kirilenko tries to catch williams out with a slow , low volley , but it 's too low and does n't clear the net , allowing williams an easy hold , and the american is just one game from taking the first set .
williams begins a must-win game with a cross-court forehand winner , but she misses a gim me of a backhand - it 's an absolute shocker . it 's 15-15 , but williams strikes back with a return winner . she proceeds to over-hit a backhand to move the game along to 30-30 , but an error from vinci gives her a chance to break back . vinci finds the one-two though - it 's superb . williams then nets a return and it 's set point to vinci , who takes it by getting williams on the run who proceeds to go long . we have a game on here !
perfect response from sharapova as she serves out to love . the dark clouds are descending though . whoever is going to win this will have to be quick !
break : sharapova extends her winning streak to three games , as azarenka 's cross-court forehand clips the top of the net and drifts wide .
a confident start from the american to take the first point , but azarenka comes back to take the next four points to hold serve .
two returns from keys fail to hit their intended target to see venus move two points from the set but she remains active when venus goes long . however , two set points are created when keys hits a wayward forehand , and it 's sealed on the first with an ace down the middle .
serena does indeed hold , and that was important . it will give her belief , but the injury has made her a much less attacking player now .
vandeweghe looks to the net again , picking up the opening point with a volley , before landing a cross-court backhand on the sideline after a baseline rally . she misses a forehand on the next point to keep sharapova in the game , but the russian slices her return wide to let vandeweghe on the board in this third set .
venus comes to the net again , taking pace off the ball with the volley . 30-30 .
kvitova offers nothing at the start of the game , and after falling 0-30 behind , she dumps a forehand into the net to gift doi three set points . but the japanese player ca n't take any of them , going for too much at the wrong point in the rally on each occasion . she earns a fourth break opportunity , but again , kvitova stays strong , and eventually forces doi to serve for the set .
that is just what the doctor ordered in this situation . robson holds with ease .
lisicki makes her first double fault of the match , but makes amends with a well-timed drop shot , before smashing a forehand winner past kanepi . the german tries another drop shot , but this time kanepi get the ball back , but lisicki is able to tap the ball into the open court . a big serve from the 23rd seed is smashed into the net by the estonian , giving lisicki the game .
sheer relief from kviotva has she wins her first game in nine attempts . the eighth seed is quick to ask about the light after that success , and encouraged by her coach looks desperate to get off court .
the serb ends the game with a winners off both wings . impressive stuff and a confidence-boosting hold to start for the underdog .
easily the most comfortable service game of the match so far for sharapova . she 's still struggling with her first serve , having got just 46 % of them in so far , but her placement on second serve forces a series of errors from williams , allowing the russian a comfortable hold .
kuznetsova rises to the challenge and now the pressure is all on wozniacki .
wozniacki holds . she puts herself within a game of victory , with kuznetsova serving to stay in the match .
williams takes the opening exchange , but she comes out second best after an epic second point , with azarenka driving the ball into the corner for 15-15. an ace gives her a slender advantage , before she hammers a forehand past the american . huge hold for azarenka .
the american has wasted no time in finding accuracy with her first serve , earning a second hold to love in the process under little pressure .
williams misses the ball completely on keys 's first serve of the game as he swings and fails to make contact . however , keys shows a bit of pain on her face due to her injured leg as she double faults . a couple of mistakes hand two break points to the number one seed as keys fails to control two forehand strokes , but hits back with a powerful strike to the body of serena . williams does n't miss out on her chance as she hits a deep forehand , which can only direct into the net .
laura robson wins !
well under pressure you have to say stephens has buckled there . at 0-40 down she goes too bold on second serve , crashing a double fault well past its intended target . make that seven successive breaks now , which apart from a confused scoreboard mean that bartoli will now serve for the match .
that five-minute seeing to by the trainer seems to have rejuvenated radwanska as she moves to 0-40 before converting her second break point with an up-the-line winner .
superb anticipation at the net from kanepi gets her service game off to a strong start , with a fierce first serve quickly building a 40-0 lead . a strong backhand return from robson reduces the deficit , but kanepi takes advantage of a slip from the brit to hold serve .
that 's a pretty straightforward hold from radwanska , so both players have served well at the start of the third .
wickmayer gets the break back following a close game between the two players .
after benefiting from a mistake from pennetta for 15-15 , vinci is in control of the next rally but she goes wide , before following that with a poor return . a volley keeps vinci in it but a beautiful drop volley from pennetta takes us into a tie-break . that rain ca n't be far away ...
i 've lost count of the amount of backhand slices that vinci has played in this match . it 's a shot that is n't really paying off either . pennetta takes advantage with a backhand winner into the corner before an ace and drop shot help her to a love hold . some rain is around 45 minutes away , apparently ...
at 30-30 , williams makes a mistake on her backhand , slicing the ball into the net . lim misses her first serve while trying to close out the game , but finds a good second serve before following it up with a forehand winner to get on the board in the second set .
in the end radwanska manages the hold and the odds very much are on that this will go into a deciding set . i hope so , as it 's been gripping thus far .
williams is definitely struggling . she 's limping a bit and muttering to herself . the serve suffered as a result and stephens is in control !
williams appears to have a word with herself for a couple of moments after finding the net while attacking a second serve . she just has n't found the rhythm to match muguruza . a superb forehand winner may help her kick on . muguruza races forward to meet a forehand which drifts just wide , but she hits the perfect spot from a similar position moments later . 30-30. muguruza trips at the back of the court at the end of a rally which goes the way of williams , who takes a few seconds to check on her rival . she 's back up to serve an ace . another break point arrives , but williams is left frustrated after hammering a backhand into the net . muguruza wo n't let her recover from mistakes like that . she 's still bossing the rallies . it 's a crucial hold .
with set point number three , azarenka finally makes it pay . she takes the first set after an hour and 17 minutes ! every point had to be earned , but neither player has really been fluent as yet .
there 's was n't looking to be a great deal of threat to the azarenka serve in that game , but kuznetsova got right back into it and pulled back to deuce with a forehand winner right on the edge of the sideline . however , azarenka just edges the game and levels the set .
it 's still hit and miss from kvitova , who hits a stunning winner moments after a double fault . the players move to 30-30 , before doi unleashes an excellent top-spin lob to bring up break point , but it is saved in fine style by kvitova . but doi shows plenty of fight and desire to keep kvitova from coasting to victory , and a sharp return forces the czech player to net .
another break point radwanska , and this time she takes it with a forehand hit right at the feet of pironkova , who can not adjust .
williams looks well on the way to a second service hold at 30-15 but she does nothing with a smash and safarova takes advantage with a forehand down the line . the american takes the next two points though to keep the final on serve .
this is really impressive from bouchard . she 's not faltering at all at the moment despite her huge lack of experience compared to her opponent .
sharapova races to a 40-0 lead , but williams forces a couple of errors from the russian to take it to 40-30 , before the number two seed finds a stunning ace to take the game .
the robson serve will be vitally important in this match . and the early signs look good for the 19-year-old , as she delivers an unstoppable ace out wide and holds to 15 .
anything stosur can do ... robson serves out to love - including a final point ace . really good response from the teenager .
li comes through that service game , forcing radwanska to serve it out .
vinci misjudges off mladenovic and sees the ball drop fair behind her when a return is clearly on . the 22-year-old moves unchallenged through to 40-0 and takes her second hold of the contest when vinci is unable to return service .
after the opening two points are shared , williams blasts another backhand long . this has been a shaky start so far . a second-serve return is then dumped into the net , but muguruza does the same from the baseline to take the score to 40-30. however , muguruza holds when serena misses again with a return and she has the advantage in the early stages .
a breezy hold from keys there , which will be encouraging for her after her last one .
a final error from a wide return hands the first game of the match to sharapova . it was an awful start , but no risk at all that she was dropping her opening serve . what can mattek-sands do with the ball ?
and there 's the break ! azarenka hits a forehand long and serena lands the first significant blow .
it 's not pretty , but sharapova got the job done there ! she battled back from 15-40 down .
the court one crowd welcomes a confident hold from robson as she shows aggression to step inside and smash a winner past kanepi . the first serve looked to have recovered in that game , with the estonian unable to chase down a wide delivery on two occasions .
sharapova manages to wrong-foot williams with a forehand down the line , leaving her out of position , but the top seed responds well , smashing a forehand return past her opponent . sharapova manages to get williams moving , forcing her to mis-hit while sliding behind the baseline . however , more careless errors from the russian see her let a 40-15 lead slip to deuce . the defending champion finally seems to be upping her first-serve percentage though , and it pays off as a couple of bid deliveries are too much for williams to return , allowing sharapova to hold serve , and just about keep herself in the match .
a couple of unforced errors and another double-fault give wozniacki three break-point opportunities . robson saves one with a volley at the net but misses a second to leave wozniacki to serve for the match .
power from mladenovic , as she punches down the line to go ahead . vinci is not too fazed , however , and rallies back to force some errors and go in front at 30-15. more strength from mladenovic makes it 30-30 , before vinci gives away break point with a tame cut into the net . the youngster takes her chance with a huge forehand winner .
a one-two behind her first serve gets pennetta off to the perfect start before vinci sends a return into the net . the pair trade meaty backhands to see pennetta reach two game points . however , a double fault at the wrong moment creates all kind of problems for the 26th seed and a brilliant backhand winner earns vinci her first break point of the final . it 's taken too after pennetta nets and we are back on level terms .
the best possible start for sharapova . a double fault by bartoli allows the russian to get her first score on the board .
a vast improvement from kanepi on serve has robson cursing a series of poor returns on second serve . the brit must regroup quickly , with a hold essential in the next game as she serves to stay in the first set .
azarenka breaks : hantuchova fails to consolidate her early break , as four forced errors allow the world number two to win game 11 to 15 .
venus quickly records four points in a row and the match is starting to slip away from keys . she is fighting on valiantly but williams looks in control of her game .
ouch ... silly tennis from mladenovic as she basically gives away her game with two double faults to hand vinci a huge chance to break straight back . the italian can not take advantage , however , as her french opponent brings deuce with a standout volley . vinci takes advantage again after another double fault , before closing out a massive break back when mladenovic faults once more ... you could not write this .
keys secures the first break of the set and will now serve for the second set . the american takes the initiative for the first time in the match against radwanska 's serve as she races into a 40-0 lead , including one fine backhand down the line from the pole 's second serve . the 26-year-old rallies with an ace , but keys earns the first break of the set as her backhand clips the top of the net and takes a fortunate bounce on the pole 's side of the net .
the brit edged ahead once more in the second set , keeping the ball in play consistently to hold serve . kanepi remains unwilling to leave the baseline , putting the pressure on her opponent to attack .
the russian 's groundstrokes look fantastic so far as she holds for a second time . she 's very much up for this one . meanwhile , azarenka has it all to do in this first set .
match ! this match is pretty much done as a contest , but barty still appears to be relishing the occasion and two neat points take her to 30-0. however , danger lurks when williams fires back for 30-30 , and a forehand that goes wide gives williams her first match point . barty just catches the line with a second serve , and she takes advantage to remain in the match with a backhand winner . she ca n't retain that momentum though , and two errors gift williams an easy passage into the second round .
williams quickly finds herself 40-0 up courtesy of some powerful and accurate serving . she seals the game with some finesse at the net , delicately volleying the ball into the open court to consolidate her break in the previous game .
azarenka must hold to stay in the match , and she opens up a 30-15 advantage when williams blazes a return long . what a shot from azarenka , who ends a lengthy rally with a forehand into the back-corner of the court . serena will return to serve for the championship .
kirilenko holds to 15. robson , who looks deadly focused as she takes a drink during the change of ends , now has the chance to serve for a place in round two .
watson starts the game with a double fault before some superb returns from cirstea bring up three break points for the world number 80. a long forehand allows watson to save the first , but another double fault gives the romanian the game . watson really does n't look herself at the moment .
a third ace of the afternoon gets serena off to a positive start before she quickly sweeps through the rest of the game with help of more huge serves for a love hold .
makarova shows the quality of her forehand with a lovely strike down the line to take a 15-0 lead in the game before a double fault from sharapova gives her a sniff of a break back . a couple of loose shots from the 26-year-old and the game is back to 30-30. makarova is unlucky as her backhand clips the top of the net but instead of dropping over onto sharapova 's side it falls on her side of the net , and the number two seed claims the game with an ace . it 's looking like being all over for makarova .
halep puts makarova on the back foot immediately with strong points to start the game , as he dominates using her forehand to good effect . the russian responds with good tennis of her own to force the mistake from the romanian after hitting the corners in the court on back-to-back points . makarova uses her power again to push the 23-year-old back and brings another mistake to bring up set point , before halep restores parity with a strong forehand down the line . she closes out the game with an ace to force makarova to serve out for the first set .
finally some promising play from daniilidou , who finds the target with some angled winners and she 's on the scoreboard . she suddenly came to life there to save the bagel .
vinci 's usually accurate serve deserts her , allowing li to make some strong returns , quickly bringing up three break points , and she seals the game with a punchy forehand winner , and will serve for a place in the quarter-finals next .
back to laver , and serena has comfortably held once again . morita just ca n't impact that ferocious serve .
robson does well to hang on under serious pressure from clijsters there .
azarenka breaks : three unforced errors from the hantuchova backhand contribute to her downfall in game 15 , as azarenka breaks to 40. the end is nigh .
and she breaks again ! she 's been brilliant from 5-2 down , makes you wonder why she could n't have started like this . she seems favourite for the set now .
a quick , easy hold for the dane .
ivanovic holds to 15 and is starting to cruise here . then again , she was at around this point in the last set and almost screwed it up .
make that six games in a row for kvitova , who is really finding power and precision with her shots . the eighth seed a gets a break she had to earn , putting her in complete charge of not only this second set but the entire match .
dare i say it but serena is looking powerful here . cibulkova is working hard at the opposite end of the court and she does get back to 30-30 , but serena raises a fist after a shot-perfect rally ends with a cross-court forehand . break consolidated .
a good hold from keys there , as she fights off a challenge from radwanska to level the set again . can she start to have a say against the pole 's serve ?
mistakes from both players leave the scores at 30-30 after four serves , but bacsinszky comes up strong to take the advantage with a splendid ace beyond her opponent . the scores are then brought to deuce when muguruza pushes her opposite number into attacking straight into the net . the spaniard moves out in front to establish a set point , which is confirmed when bacsinszky sends a woeful lob long and wide on the return from a powerful backhand .
pennetta begins the second set with a drive volley onto the line , but vinci lights up arthur ashe with an inventive way to execute a drop shot . she then ends the next rally with a drop volley at the net , but back comes pennetta , who ends a three-point streak with a forehand into the corner .
what a back and forth battle in that game . neither player wants to leave an inch as the score goes from 15-0 , to 15-15 , to 30-15 and so on , which inevitably leads us to deuce . jankovic smacks a class return to rid sharapova oh her advantage , but could n't reply from a wide serve . sharapova then captured the game by hitting the line once again .
bouchard must be wondering if it 's always this easy against a top seed on centre court at wimbledon ! another comfortable hold to 15 for the canadian who has n't offered a single break point since the opening game of the match .
great twisting two-handed forehand from kerber has venus scrambling . 40-15 .
errani holds ! impressive stuff from the italian , who beats williams down the line with a lovely passing shot . too little too late though .
but she does n't want to be back in , as she goes long with a forehand for 3-2. this is , frankly , dreadful at the moment ; there has barely been a clean shot hit . a couple more from li , and that 's why she 's slightly in front .
hantuchova breaks : instant response by the slovakian , who provides two gorgeous winners en route to breaking back to love straight away .
it 's a solid service game from kanepi , who had made a few mistakes in the opening game of the match . she places her serves out wide , leaving lisicki stretching on her returns , taking just the one point from her opponent .
and there 's the pants side of laura robson 's game . she delivers two consecutive double faults to gift clijsters the initiative in the second set .
a love game for stosur as robson makes a couple of unforced errors . really important that the brit holds now .
from the very first point , some of the hitting is phenomenal , and williams quickly establishes a 0-30 after two errors from azarenka . the american is forcing azarenka back and she quickly brings up three break points . the world number two saves the first with an ace , but a bludgeoning backhand winner earns williams the opening game .
to be fair to azarenka , she is still fighting , but williams is picking off winners at will . but what 's this ? two mistakes from the american hand break points to azarenka . williams saves the first , but azarenka catches the line with a backhand , and she recovers one of the breaks .
robson saves the break point before holding on to again move within a game of the match .
she gets a huge slice of luck as she hammers the ball into the net and it ends up the right side of it from her point of view . we 're still not seeing great tennis here and the crowd has gone quite flat . li probably can not believe she 's winning the way she 's playing at the moment .
sharapova may not be able to match her opponent 's quality of tennis today but her competitive spirit has been impressive . after losing a 30-0 lead , the russian manages to blast a forehand past the american , to edge ahead , but a great backhand from the top seed saw the game head to deuce . a bold second serve from the russian gave her advantage , before a couple of solid forehands in a rally from the baseline ensured that sharapova held her serve . williams will now serve for the match and championship .
ominous start as williams holds to love . errani was not able to get in to any of those four points on the american 's serve .
vinci looks on course for a comfortable hold to love but her second double fault of the match helps williams stay active . not for long though , with williams sending a return into the net .
kvitova looks like she 's going to try to make a fight of it as she comes into the net for another well-taken volley at the start of the game , but follows it up with a double fault . kvitova comes inside the baseline again , hitting an excellent overhead smash to edge in front . the italian fights back with a forehand , before back-to-back long shots from the czech gift the 26th seed the game . pennetta will serve for the match next .
radwanska 's serve is the first to snap as lisicki converts at the fourth time of asking . her backhand pass pops up fortunately off the tape and radwanska ca n't react quick enough to divert it into court .
kuznetsova holds comfortably . wozniacki is struggling to cope with the powerful shots that are coming over the net . most of her points coming by way of errors from the russian .
robson looks tentative coming forward and volleys into the net . stephens holds . the brit needs to do likewise to force a first-set tie break .
well , the youngster holds to love . she finishes with a superb forehand winner , but will have to produce much more of that if she is to force a deciding set .
well it was n't looking likely for a while , but the slovakian holds again . neither woman is playing well , but for now it 's cibulkova who just leads . really , li should be a set up with how the match was going early in this set , but instead has to hold to stay in the opener .
ivanovic with a tame double fault and the teenager has an early advantage on centre .
azarenka attacks as she pushes in from the baseline , taking her forehands early before landing one on the sideline to bring up two break points . a big serve from the world number one saves the first , but a low backhand from williams on the next point hands azarenka the game .
after a solid backhand up the line , robson hits a several ground strokes long , allowing wozniacki to consolidate the break .
even at 30-0 down , williams is dangerous and two return winners later and she is back at 30-30. she follows that with another well-struck return that forces the error from safarova to create a set point but it 's terrifically saved by the czech who drills a forehand winner past her opponent . the left-hander takes the next two points to hold serve but she needs to break in this next game to avoid falling a set behind .
clijsters lets out a big scream of `` come on ! '' as she again holds on to her serve .
hantuchova breaks to love ! the second set is back on serve and williams looks a little rattled .
sharapova breaks ! the 2008 champion spurns two more break points with unforced errors before knapp 's sixth double fault of the match presents the russian with a fifth opportunity to break in game seven . this time , she converts , testing her opponent with a stinging forehand drive , which knapp 's backhand can only deflect into the net .
more power from keys to draw level at 15 each with a splendid hack across the court on radwanska 's second serve . real brutal work from the youngster . errors from both players take the scores to 30-30 , before keys pulls ahead with a standout forehand to establish the break point . radwanska soon fights back as keys hits the net , only for the american to move back to advantage with a whopper of forehand volley . radwanska hangs on in there to force her own advantage , which see takes when keys can only find the net .
keys finds her rhythm on her serve as she fires an ace past serena 's forehand , and then smashes her next forehand at the feet of the 33-year-old who ca n't dig the ball out . serena makes a rare mistake as she misses the line with her forehand by some considerable distance and keys earns the hold with a forehand winner following a short return from williams . an important game to win for the 19-year-old .
the greek can not cope with the power of azarenka . more huge baseline winners in daniilidou 's opening service game and she finally wins a point with a controlled smash at the net . however , it 's not enough to stop a comfortable azarenka break with two double faults ensuring a poor start .
some great hitting from azarenka sees the world number one get the hold . plenty of the crowd cheer when she does - she 's certainly gaining more support as this one goes on .
pennetta is on the attack from the start as she slices a forehand winner down the sideline , before kvitova tries to do the same , only to fire her effort long , bringing up a break point for the italian . kvitova comes inside the baseline to attack on the forehand trying to save it , but she makes her third unforced error of the game to hand it to the 26th seed .
she might be being overpowered but safarova is showing tremendous character to remain competitive in this match . williams looks dangerous every time she is given time to unleash a shot off the ground but the czech hangs tough to hold to 30 after the american nets from the baseline .
the russian holds to 15 .
no sign of nerves from robson as she sends down a first serve that clijsters can only push long . 57 minutes that set took and surprisingly it 's the 18-year-old who is ahead .
hampton flicks a half volley at the net just wide and azarenka holds . a big hold in the contest of the set , maybe . we 'll see if hampton can hold , and then if she can trouble azarenka once more . we 'll know a lot more at the next changeover .
much better play from sharapova as she claims the first point of the game without much hassle . the 27-year-old shows the diversity in her play with a drop shot , which hassles makarova who can only hit her return wide . an error from the 10th seeds hands maria three game points , but she needs only one as she slams a forehand winner past her compatriot . a lot of pressure on makarova now .
robson breaks ! robson commits to attack and hammers back a clean winner off a nervy kirilenko serve . the home favourite breaks to 15 and will now serve for the first set .
azarenka simply must hold this or else this match will be as good as over . the belorussian takes the first two points , but she is pegged back by williams . however , the world number two manages to hang on after williams nets twice , and she is on the board for the second set .
stephens forces deuce but robson sends a couple of tasty forehands her way to get on the board in this second set .
azarenka responds in kind with a love service hold of her own .
after a lackluster opening game to the third set , li has rediscovered he serving rhythm . she races to a 40-0 lead before allowing azarenka a point , but she seals the game with an ace .
azarenka needs a solid start to this set , but she quickly falls 0-30 down . williams is throwing everything at her opponent , and she brings up two breaks point with a backhand winner down the line . she looks impeccable off that wing . she saves the first , but a williams return is too hot to handle , and the american has the break .
that was erakovic 's first game in nine , and the confidence looks back as she dominates robson from the back of the court for 30-0. the new zealand player moves to game point , but another slip from the 25-year-old allow robson to remain in the game . it does n't matter though , as she powers another ace past the brit . important game coming up ...
this has turned into a must-hold game for bacsinszky but she finds herself 15-30 down after missing with two forehands . she then hooks a forehand miles long of the baseline and this is slipping away fast . or is it ? bacsinszky saves them both before finding the line for an ace . however , she ca n't get over line and serena comes roaring back to take three successive points and open up a considerable lead .
vandeweghe hits some ferocious backhands to try to wrongfoot her opponent , but sharapova gets her racquet to the ball at full stretch to take a 30-0 lead , but the american levels the game with two well-taken forehand winners . sharapova is back on the attack to bring up a break back , but another stunning forehand from the vandeweghe takes the game to deuce . the fourth seed lets vandeweghe off as she twice fires her forehand into the net .
a deep return from cirstea catches williams out , before a double fault gives the 26th seed two break points . the american saves the first but is visibly furious with herself , but she channels her anger to pull it back to deuce . cirstea comes into the net to try to smash a volley past her opponent , but she takes it too soon , and plays the ball into the net , before a long forehand gifts the game to williams . cirstea will be disappointed with the outcome , having had two chances to break the top seed .
sharapova has a new lease of life and a booming forehand winner into the corner takes her to 0-30. serena shows her resolve in reaching 30-30 courtesy of a couple of big serves , and advances to game point , despite sharapova reaching new decibel levels . the hold is complete when williams hits the line with a first serve .
a couple of unlikely poor shots from azarenka give daniilidou a look-in to her serve . however she recovers with a thumping serve that can not be returned and once more takes the game . just one needed for a rapid set lead . only 17 minutes so far !
superb forehand from the youngster and she 's held very comfortably there . great start .
keys shows signs that her confidence in growing in the match as she eases her way to levelling the decider with a love service game . the 20-year-old dicates every point in the game as the pole has no answer for her power , especially on her forehand where she earns three of her points .
radwanska also holds , recovering from 0-30 and winning four straight points . she seals the game with a serve down the t that took a bit of a dodgy bounce off the centre line .
she may be struggling with illness but this is an excellent start from williams . she commits two double faults when serving into the sun but he dominates the other four points . safarova is holding her own but she does n't look powerful enough to live with williams in this match .
an important hold by radwanska as the momentum appeared to be shifting towards the 20-year-old , but she stops the tide with a relatively simple win on her service game . the pole finds her rhythm on her serve to knock the american to the baseline and then manouevres her around the court with an array of powerful forehands to secure the win .
another routine hold for radwanska and her grip on this match just got tighter . ivanovic is back on serve and has to hold to maintain any realistic hopes of a comeback .
williams needs to hold serve here , otherwise all her hard work will result in nothing . a poor backhand and a double fault moves azarenka 15-30 up , before a tepid forehand from serena limply hits the net . azarenka misses a golden opportunity to win the game as she blazes a forehand out of play , while williams follow that with a smash to take the game to deuce . williams holds on to win the game , and azarenka will rue that missed chance .
sharapova asks for hawkeye to take a look at a second serve from vandeweghe , and manages to prove that the american made a double fault . a couple more unforced errors from the world number 47 give the russian a chance to go a break up again , and she claims the game when vandeweghe catches the ball with the frame of her racquet .
sharapova is bring out the big hits and plays several just a whisker inside the line . she storms to 40-love before racing across the court to secure the perfect game with a lovely backhand .
a calming start from makarova as she manages to claim the first point of the game , but then she goes long with forehand to bring sharapova level . baseline mistakes continue from the 10th seed as she overhits her forehand to the back of the court , while her attempted backhand slice flies straight into the net to hand sharapova two break points . two excellent serves bail her out of those as she crashes two strikes down the 't ' . makarova challenges correctly on a call to earn advantage on the closest of margins , but then sharapova nets with her next shot to get the 10th seed on the board .
fantastic forehand down the line from kerber . match point .
sharapova recovers from 0-30 but li claws it back to deuce . li saves a game point when the russian again puts a backhand long . sharapova then saves break point after li 's turn to go long . the chinese keeps up the pressure and finally forces the double break with a big forehand setting up the backhand winner .
obviously i type the below and she goes and has a poor finish to the game ! it 's three straight breaks to start the second as ana double-faults at advantage azarenka . ashe is filling up more and more now as people hear of the neck-and-neck battle going on right now .
williams breaks again - this to to deuce . she is totally dominating this match from the baseline . errani is going to have to come up different 0 and quick !
serena 's serve is a potent weapon , and it came to her rescue a few time in that game . she holds to a 2-1 lead , but morita looks a wily opponent .
oh for goodness sake ! that 's now seven straight breaks of serve if you go back to the end of the first set ! ivanovic pulls it back to 30-40 but then double-faults again on the big point after azarenka successfully challenged the first serve , which hawk-eye showed to be out by a millimetre .
a passionate halep attempts to get herself going again with a big celebration after a quite brilliant forehand winner . azarenka hits back with a big serve/forehand combo , before edging ahead when halep fails to find the line with the backhand . the belarusian continues to struggle with the drop shot , and her poor execution is punished again as halep shows her pace to beat her opponent with an excellent finish at the net . azarenka powers back to secure the hold and she is a game away from the set .
an awesome forehand from robson across court earns a vital break at the second time of asking . that was a fearless effort under pressure , with kanepi unable to compete due to sloppy footwork at the baseline . the 19-year-old will now serve for the first set !
williams finds herself out of position , but manages to scoop the ball up with a radwanska-style squat to win the point . cirstea slides out wide but ca n't take enough pace of williams ' forehand to get the return in , and it 's a comfortable service game for the world number one .
now jankovic turns it on , and swiftly moves to a 30-0 advantage . she keeps on her game and sends a flailing sharapova all over the court . she takes the game for love and leads the set .
azarenka breaks back and we 're on serve again in this second set .
but there 's no mistake this time , as kuznetsova puts everything into a return on the second serve . the russian will now serve for a place in the last eight !
unforced errors cost kirilenko , as she struggled to manage williams ' serve . the russian takes just one point from the game after a volley catches her opponent out , but the chance for a break back never looked on for kirilenko .
she converts ! williams breaks to 30 and is now a double break up in the second set . this match does n't have long left .
bacsinszky takes the first point when williams blasts a return long before the swiss catches the line to register an ace out wide . she has half a chance for 40-0 but she miscues a forehand to give williams hope , but the american proceeds to net with a forehand on the next point to give bacsinszky two set points . they are both saved though as serena goes big with a forehand before bacsinszky misses out with a forehand . it 's break point for the world number one but it 's an outstanding save from the underdog , who finds the target with a backhand winner . williams is fighting hard but she ca n't deny her opponent , who takes the set when the world number one misses out with a forehand .
radwanska is starting to play with more variety and it 's drawing the errors out of her opponent . muguruza responds with a backhand winner , but it 's break point to radwanska after a backhand goes long . muguruza looks in control of the point but it 's a tremendous reply from the pole , who ends the point with a smash to move a game away from the set .
williams wins the point following a 20-shot rally , after sharapova hits her backhand into the net . a wide effort from the russian gives williams two chances to regain the break of serve , and she takes it with a ferocious cross-court forehand , which lands just on the sideline . williams will now serve for the opening set .
sharapova raises the intensity of her power hitting as she recovers from 15-30 to hold to 30 .
match point robson ...
just as i was about to write off stephens an eighth successive break of serve comes courtesy of an angled backhand winner up the line . a nice show of mental strength there from stephens , but she must end this crazy sequence of breaks to stay in the match .
mladenovic opens up the decider , then . vinci can not find her feet as her opponent goes 30-15 ahead , though the italian is given a chance following some more french mistakes . a crunching forehand moves mladenovic back into a game-winning position and she seals it by opening up across court with her backhand .
a great response from robson , as kvitova also struggles with her opening service game . two double faults from kvitova helped robson to a break point , before the czech caught the ball on the net to hand her break back .
first set to robson ! the world number 38 races into a 40-0 lead , but wastes her first two set points , making the crowd on court number one nervy . that nervousness quickly becomes joy , as robson cracks a huge serve down the middle , which her opponent deflects well wide .
williams gets into position for two routine put-aways but she misses both , much to her frustration . it gives bacsinszky the momentum to come through with a love hold of her own .
two aces and a big first serve in a row take williams to three game points , which is sealed with another booming first delivery down the middle . the last six points have been as good as it gets .
mladenovic continues well back on her own serve and a lucky net point sets up the game . the 22-year-old takes it when vinci comes up short on the forehand .
bartoli 's composed volley , followed by an unreturned serve sees her consolidate the break .
after a 13th return winner , lisicki again misfires with a groundstroke to hand radwanska the hold . can she steady herself on serve now ?
break : another double fault from sharapova . total capitulation from the russian .
or maybe not .. once again kerber 's serve fails her and makarova breaks back . there have been as many breaks as holds in this one i reckon , no-one seems to want to go a set up .
azarenka serves her fourth double fault of the set and stephens takes full advantage . well , azarenka implodes , goes wide with the forehand and the american has broken back . she 's keeping herself in this one .
this is the biggest game of safarova 's career . how will she handle it ? it 's not a great start as she commits a double fault before she sprays a routine forehand wide of the target . safarova risks a 141kmph second serve and it pays off to halve the deficit before she wrong-foots the serbian with a forehand for 30-30. however , a double fault hands ivanovic a break point but the former world number one drills a forehand return off a second serve into the net . it 's a shocker . safarova creates a match point after prevailing from a lengthy baseline rally but it 's followed by her third double fault of the game ! she then misses with a backhand inside the court to hand another break point to ivanovic but again , she nets a potential winner ! what drama . a third break point is created with a stunning forehand down the line but safarova saves it with a smash . this is incredible stuff . ivanovic is relishing this far more than safarova and she over-powers her opponent to bring up a fourth opening for the break and on this occasion , she takes it when safarova catches the net to help the ball go wide .
momentum shift ? safarova pulls off the shot of the final with a heavily-sliced backhand from the baseline that gets the better of her opponent before two game points are created when she outlasts williams in a rally . that 's followed by a big first serve that is fired out and the czech is back to within one game .
venus seems undecided whether to attack keys or make her work for every point and it 's not helping her cause . however , despite falling 40-15 behind , she hangs tough with her opponent to get to deuce , and that 's enough to heap enough pressure on keys to secure the break of serve when the 19-year-old blazes long .
she blows it again by putting a backhand into the tramlines . from that point there was only likely to be one winner of the game , and sharapova holds - marginally , once more - to move just one away from the first set .
madison keys beats heather watson
not the best start for vinci as she opens up with a double fault . almost comical next up from mladenovic who bangs one into the stands . vinci is soon back on her game with an ace , which is followed by crushing forehand across the court . her french opponent responds with a wonderful cut down the line , but concedes the game when she produces an error on the backhand .
williams seems to just be cruising towards the second round , knowing that she just needs to do enough on her own serve to seal the win . the american has one of her most comfortable service games of the match , allowing lim just a point as she keeps her forehand tidy .
watson starts this game much better , forcing keys into two errors on the opening three points , but she then gifts the american parity when she nets from the baseline . however , the brit earns her first break point after another keys mistake , but the american thunders down a first serve that watson sends wide . a double fault gives watson another chance , but a stunning ace saves it , and keys eventually sees out the game . that was more encouraging from watson .
the belarusian breaks straight back . it could be 'one of them matches ' . the ones where service holds are like breaks .
lim has to stay well behind to baseline to give herself time to react to williams 's forehands , but she gets a lucky strike on the net chord to give her advantage before williams 's backhand crept just wide to allow lim to hold .
eventually radwanska holds after seven deuces and 13 minutes . much-needed drinks after that .
a couple of brilliant forehands from kvitova and a lucky hit of the net chord help the czech to another break .
good power from jankovic on a couple of occasions in that game . she displays her trademark backhand and even a forehand cross-court to take a good hold .
a bad start to the game from bouchard as he produces an unforced error for the 23rd time in the game , but she bounces back with a solid rally to earn the point after working sharapova over in the middle of the court . the players exchange winners on alternate points , but sharapova has the break point only for bouchard to produce a brilliant drop shot . the canadian uses all her ability to dig out another point with a superb backhand winner , but follows that up with a carelees loose shot into the net . however , two uncharacteristic errors from sharapova hand bouchard the crucial hold as she drills her backhand into the net .
aided by three unforced errors from her opponent , knapp holds to 30. sharapova must now serve from the sunny end . can she finally close out ? let 's find out ...
a dreadful game from williams sees hantuchova hold to 15. i apologise to anyone who took notice of my prediction and bet on serena to win the game handicap . the only way that can happen now is if hantuchova wins this set in a tie-break and then loses the decider 6-0. you never know ...
we are a witnessing the trademark williams lull right now . all of a sudden , she looks completely de-energised and frustrated . she takes the opening point with a forehand winner but the rest of the game belongs to vinci .
kirilenko is gifted the opening point as robson fires long with an ultra-aggressive forehand . however , the british number one quickly finds her range and , courtesy of some very clean hitting , holds comfortably to 15 .
back on service , vinci takes control with a mixed bag of shots to unsettle mladenovic at 30-15. however , mladenovic comes straight back with a crushing forehand down the line at 30-30. another beautiful forehand from the youngster brings about break point , but she can not take it with a lowly cut into the net . more inconsistency from mladenovic gives vinci hope , and she holds out with a brilliant serve and volley . another big moment , for sure !
another good hold from stephens and she has now won three games in a row .
radwanska battles back but na has recovered superbly from her poor start to go ahead in the set for the first time .
set williams : errani looks on helplessly as serena hammers back two sensational flat winners to help her break to love and inflict a bagel set on the fifth seed .
strong service game again for kerber , who has got herself into this and will surely attack the russian 's serve once more ?
kuznetsova draws first blood in the final set . she took control of that point from the word go with a deep return , before going to the other side of the court for the winner .
really strong hold from li , who is racing to this set . it 's been a fine response and zakopalova looks to have given this one up in order to fight for the third .
two big first serves help take muguruza to 30-15 , before she ends an enthralling exchange with a stunning forehand winner down the line . the double-break is backed up when radwanska sprays a forehand wide , and she is one game away from losing the opener .
really strong fightback from li , but she owes a lot to a really poor attempt at a drop shot from the czech . this set is heading towards a bagel .
williams has still got enough about her to trouble stephens , but really the youngster is missing too many shots . that said , she recovers from break point down to hold after some good net play .
nothing at all wrong with her serve , though . she holds to 15 and looked very comfortable .
serena was down 0-30 but she fights back to secure a huge hold . the last point comes from an ace . the crowd liked that .
however for all her toil she can not break her opponent right now . she will have to very soon or it 's curtains for her .
some great hitting already from these two but sharapova comes through to hold . this has the makings of a cracker .
the former world number one consolidates her break by emphatically holding to love .
kuznetsova works another advantage with a good bouncing second serve and wraps up the game with a backhand right into the corner . a big lead now for her in this opener .
she holds with a big serve , which clips the edge of pironkova 's racquet and hits a man in the crowd on the arm . he rubs his elbow , but come on , it 's a tennis ball .
important hold for bartoli , who has sent out a message to sharapova there . what will be the russian 's response ?
it looks like it 's going to be an easy hold for the italian as she opens up a 40-15 lead , but kvitova fights back with a pair of winners to the back of the court . the czech misses a backhand while looking for the break point though , and looks rather flat-footed as she makes another error on the backhand to give the italian the game . despite the weather that 's due overnight , it 's still a hot day in new york , and it looks like kvitova was feeling the heat a bit towards the end of that game .
it 's a comfortable start to the match for the world number one as she opens the first set with some big serves . the 26th seed has little answer to williams 's sheer power .
an impressive hold to love puts radwanska firmly in the driving seat early on . important for ivanovic to put a game on the board and try to establish herself in the match now .
cirstea looks strong when she gets into a rally , forcing a rare mistake from williams in the opening points of the game . the romanian comes into the net to volley but the american smashes the ball towards the baseline , leaving her opponent out of position . cirstea goes for an ambitious backhand , but she gets it caught in the net , and williams closes the game out with a big serve , leaving her just one game short of taking the opening set after just 19 minutes .
five straight breaks of serve now as bartoli uses sheer power on her backhand side to reclaim her second-set advantage . a hold now for the italian could prove decisive as stephens continues to struggle at the baseline .
watson tries to get on the attack and break back again , but she misses several returns to give cirstea a comfortable hold , despite the romanian missing a couple of first serves along the way .
wozniacki 's unbelievable counter-punching ability again sees her take the lead in the game . robson executes a big cross-court forehand but the dane finds something special again , chasing down every shot before finding a winner . another unforced error from robson gives her opponent a 4-1 lead .
kerber has a double break as lisicki pulls a forehand wide . the crowd favourite is really struggling to impose herself while kerber looks so cool and collected .
jankovic comfortably holds the opening game of the match , how can ivanovic respond ?
azarenka goes down 0-15 but recovers to dominate on serve - with a little help from kuztetsova errors . however , azarenka overhits a couple and brings it to deuce . kuznetsova battles hard , and eventually manages the break ! first blood kuznetsova .
and there it is , azarenka breaks straight back . the crowd hardly clap . they 're right behind hampton in this one !
the serving from williams is of the highest quality as she does n't give keys a chance to hit back at her as all four of the shots are on the money , including two aces in a love game . there were four shots played in that game , all by williams . she is playing at an extremely high level now .
too easy for sharapova on her serve now . you wonder looking at makarova playing her opponent 's serve how she managed a break in the first set . sharapova finishes this particular game with a low driven forehand that somehow clips the line .
azarenka using her experience now . stephens does fight back really well but the belarusian grabs another break and puts another nail in the stephens coffin .
muguruza is still fighting , but williams is finding the right areas with the best shots now . a gripping exchanges at 30-15 ends with the world number one coming forward to hit the backhand winner . muguruza then finds the net to give her rival a break point . the first chance is wasted , but a forehand winner off the second serve earns williams another opportunity . ace ! much better from muguruza , but she opens the door to williams again with a backhand into the net . williams finally takes the gift when a forehand from muguruza drifts long . she 'll now serve for the match .
mladenovic shows some increased aggression in the fourth to come back into contention at 30-30. vinci goes ahead when the youngster falls short on the return , but the italian concedes deuce with a shot into the net . continued battling at deuce finishes as vinci goes ahead before seeing mladenovic volley tamely into the net .
much more accurate from li . not just with her serve but her shots from the baseline were finding the target , which helped her to a strong and important hold early in the set .
and she takes it ! serena looks deflated as she hits a backhand wide to concede the service break . what effect will that have on this final ? azarenka will be in firm control if she consolidates with a hold .
assured start from williams , as she holds to 15. the american must have covered all of three feet in that game ... sheer power !
match ! vinci begins a must-win service game with a shocker of a forehand into the tramlines before pennetta moves two points away with a stunning backhand winner . vinci looks to have half given up with an extremely poor lob that is given the treatment by pennetta for three match points and pennetta takes it with a forehand winner that catches the line !
sharapova 's run of six successive games comes to an end , but makarova has to find a break from somewhere if she 's to stay in this match .
after that drama , makarova just manages to hold and we 're still going with serve .
so , who 's going to crack first in this deciding set ? the first two points are shared in this game , before azarenka moves ahead with a winner and a bad williams error . williams gets back into things when azarenka hits two forehands out of play . another error gives williams break point , but the american clips a backhand wide . she gets another chance two points later , and she finally does it ! ! azarenka sends a volley into the net , and she goes 4-2 up !
big hold for azarenka ! sharapova 's backhand lets her down as break point comes and goes . two more errors then gift the game to the world number three .
it 's sharapova 's turn to hit the net and azarenka holds again . the russian will get a second chance to serve out this first set .
radwanska looks to impose herself early on and she forces keys into two errors , but the american soon hits back with a forehand winner . keys seeks to push radwanska a little harder and she wins out as her polish opponent makes a mistake trying to return on the forehand as the ball flies out of the court . two more errors from radwanska give keys the break point , and she takes it when radwanska fails on the backhand .
stephens holds with an ace at just the right time . she pumps her fist and lets out a little scream . she knows that robson is on the warpath .
williams gets on the attack early on , coming into the net to pounce on a volley , but she gives the ball too much power on the next point , firing her forehand long again . kuznetsova has not such problems with her forehand , as she sends the ball down the line . williams appeared to twist her ankle , and is unable to make a return again the next serve , giving kuznetsova the game . williams has n't called for the trainer though , so she seems ok to continue .
a hold to love shows that bartoli really means business here . it 's not been a subtle match , but it 's been a good one to watch nevertheless . over to you maria .
after serving for the set , azarenka is gifted set point against the serve . halep seems comfortable , before a double fault and a fine backhand winner from azarenka gets her back in the game . it takes a couple of errors from halep as she find the nets before going long to ruin her hard work . we are headed for a decider !
wickmayer holds to level the scores in the second set . gajdosova had a set point , but the belgian played some strong shots to keep the set alive .
and she does - with ease ! azarenka holds to love to pile pressure on sharapova , who , after wasting four match points in her last service game , will now again attempt to serve for a place in saturday 's final .
after those nightmare service games to start , both women have now held serve . li does so with a big up-the-line backhand at advantage .
under the impression that keys is all about power ? think again . she glides into the net to put away the deftest of volleys before venus throws in a double fault to give her opponent 0-30. it 's all keys now and she brings up three set points when venus sends a backhand into the net . she wastes no time in moving into a one-set lead with a bludgeoning forehand return and venus has it all to do here .
eventually it 's a hold for kvitova but she did n't make it look easy . robson has had eight break points against kvitova in the last two service games from the czech , but has failed to take any of her chances .
a much-needed hold for jankovic at the start of the second set . a break next would be nice , if not a little a greedy !
serena secures the double break with a booming forehand .
well it 's a hold for azarenka , but she was made to work hard by stosur , who has improved dramatically . it may be too late to save this set , but it bodes well for the next one .
it 's not only muguruza 's power that is effective , it 's her accuracy too . she races into a 40-0 lead , bringing up three more set points , and a big first serve sees her win the set in just 34 minutes . it 'll take something special from radwanska from here .
kanepi attacks straight away , coming into the net to smash a volley past her opponent , but lisicki hits back with some powerful serves to take a 40-15 lead . kanepi gets back into the game with some more strong play at the net , but lisicki manages to hold , clinching the game with another impressive serve .
williams is just one game away , and she clearly does n't fancy hanging around to serve it out herself . she wins the first point with an accurate backhand , but marginally misses with a return of serve next time round . azarenka does a couple of fist pumps when williams hits the net with a forehand , but the american manages to the game to deuce . a sweet shot and an ace give azarenka the game though , and williams will now serve for the match .
no she ca n't as kim regains some composure with an easy hold .
the first point of the match goes to kvitova as bouchard nets with a forehand , but kvitova then follows suit for 15-15. a brilliant forehand from bouchard then moves the canadian 30-15 ahead , before kvitova fires long for 40-15. kvitova responds with a sweeping forehand for 40-30 , but bouchard holds with a powerful serve .
williams is fairly passive and flat-footed in hantuchova 's opening service game , producing four tame errors , which see the slovak to hold to love .
kuznetsova goes down the line and it looks like it will hit the line , but it 's called out . the russian challenges , and hawkeye confirms the call to be correct . game on !
this time the german does break as radwanska 's volley drifts long . lisicki will now serve for the match for a second time .
a wayward start to the second set from keys hands watson 0-30 , and although the brit struggles to put away the next point , keys goes long with a lob and out of nowhere , the 21-year-old has three break points . keys saves the first , but some phenomenal defensive work from watson seals the break , and that 's a fine response to going a set behind .
azarenka starts the game well with a great return , but li dig deep to find a series of powerful serves , which help her to a 40-15 lead . she closes a rally with a superbly-struck backhand , leaving herself just one break down .
vinci gets just her third winner of the match on the board , but that is as good as it gets . williams is in full control and a hold to 15 takes her to within one game of the first set .
neither player has really got going yet , but crucially for li her start has been slightly better than cibulkova 's . really key game this for the slovak ; she has to hold here .
serena hammers another ace past the flailing azarenka to hold . the world number one will now serve to stay in the match . five minutes ago she was serving for the match . breathtaking .
williams gets lucky when she clips the top of the net , but then follows with a long forehand to hand cornet a break point , but the american 's powerful serve saves her . she 's now won four games in a row after a shaky start .
williams appears to have gone up a gear as she races to a 40-15 lead to leave her opponent facing to more break points . however , lim produces some testing forehands to level the scores . lim had a chance to wrap up the game , but williams went up a level again to get another break , and she will be serving for the match next .
some short serves from kuznetsova allow williams to attack , and she brings up two break points , but she needs just the one , getting the better of her opponent with a good forehand return . williams has never looked settled in the second set , but that was one of her better games .
williams goes straight on the attack with some aggressive returning , claiming the first two points of the game , but some strong ground strokes get sharapova back into the game . another double fault from the russian brings up two break points for her opponent though , but she saves both as the american hits two backhands wide . williams gets advantage , but sharapova plays some superb shots from the baseline to force a mistake from the world number one while running to make a return . sharapova finally forces advantage when williams returns a big serve from the russian to the net , and she clinches the game with a forehand to the back corner of the court , having saved five break points along the way .
jankovic struggled in that game after stretching for a smash . she 's got protection on her stomach muscles , and that looked painful . ivanovic gets the important break , though .
kirilenko holds to 30 to heap pressure onto young robson .
break back ! a weak forehand from sharapova brings up a break point before the russian hits the net again . the belarusian breaks back and we 're all square at 1-1 .
normal service is resumed as williams holds to love .
vinci is using the drop shot to good effect but it proves to be her downfall in conceding two break points to pennetta . she only needs one after drilling a backhand towards the baseline and her opponent ca n't react . has vinci got the energy to haul herself back from here ?
after a couple of closely-fought games , halep wraps up a comfortable hold of serve , with azarenka missing a string of returns before halep hits another forehand winner . azarenka has been trying to keep the ball away from halep 's backhand , but the second seed is playing some wonderful shots on the forehand side . incidentally , in her two previous matches against azarenka , halep picked up just one game in three of her sets , and three in the other , so this is officially her best ever set against the former world number one .
two break points for venus .
sensational tennis from williams once again as she dominates the first rally of the game for 0-15 , but the american then hits the net for 15-15. williams also nets in the next two points to hand wozniacki 40-15 , before the dane holds with an ace .
halep has her right thigh heavily strapped after struggling with an injury in her last match . at 30-30 , azarenka senses a chance to test her opponent 's movement around the court , making an excellent forehand winner to the back corner to give her a chance for an early break , which she takes with a volley on the next point .
knapp holds to 30. sharapova must now serve to stay in the match !
crucial 15 minutes of the set coming up . williams strikes first , but three points in a row take azarenka to the brink of the game . it looks certain to be 40-30 , but the world number two throws out a racquet at the net to send the ball over williams and into the back of the court .
and it 's a first game for sharapova , who gets the crowd on her side with a wonderful lob to make it 15-15 before conceding the lead once more with another shot out of bounds . she should have buried a shot at the net , but levels things up with a spinning backhand . both girls then hit superb winners to take the game to deuce . sharapova then takes the advantage , and jankovic double faults to land the champion her first game of the match .
vandeweghe serves well at the start of the game , forcing a run of returning errors from sharapova to open up a 40-0 lead . a couple of sloppy forehand from the american get the fourth seed back into the game though , and it heads to deuce when vandeweghe slices the ball into the net . the unseeded player finds her first serve again to get advantage , before sharapova hits her backhand wide , allowing vandeweghe to end a run of three-straight games for sharapova .
robson breaks back immediately as a fortunate flick off the net is followed by an excellent backhand up the line . her opponent then misses with her own backhand and robson wins the game with a big forehand .
what an imposing game from williams . three first serves , one of which reached 192kmph , take the american to three game points , and a bludgeoning smash at the net seals an easy game .
it 's a simple start to the second set for williams , as cornet struggles with her returns against williams ' serve .
some fine play from the baseline take robson to 0-30 , but erakovic replies with ace . robson should have two break points , but some stunning defensive work from the new zealand player earns 30-30. this has been such a dominant performance from erakovic , and two strong first serves bring up the first set inside 23 minutes .
li holds to love . absolutely nothing sharapova can do about that as li 's form continues .
she does n't understand what pressure is here . two further aces follow and four match points are saved - radwanska must serve this out .
back comes bacsinszky who takes the opening point , but williams is unmoved as he fires down successive aces on the way to a comfortable hold . important game on its way for bacsinszky .
knapp gets excited as she reaches 30-30 on sharapova 's serve , leaving her just two points from a sensational victory . however , the third seed gets her first serve firing just in time and holds to 30 .
a double fault gives azarenka the double break and it 's now just a matter of time . i do n't care what you say though , there is absolutely no need for the length of her very annoying grunt . no need whatsoever . the decibels as well ...
pennetta is clearly desperate to get the break straight back , pulling off an excellent forehand return down the sideline on her way to a 30-0 lead . kvitova responds , upping the power on her serve to edge ahead . the czech gets a time violation warning for taking too long between points , and it seems to affect her focus as she makes two double faults in a row , giving pennetta a break point , but she regains her composure to get a big serve in , taking the game back to deuce . kvitova gets a chance to take the game when she brings up advantage with a rare volley , slicing the ball to the back of the court , before pennetta hits her return long off the next point . kvitova really lost her head for a couple of points in that game , and it lucky to come out of it without dropping her serve . the scoreline definitely flatters for the former wimbledon champion at the moment .
robson reacts well to kvitova 's new found serving form and takes the game to deuce , before the former wimbledon champion seems to lose her serve again , firing down three more double faults to help robson to get the break back .
a hold of serve ! well done li , who responded well in that game to put a little pressure back on the radwanska serve .
robson holds , just , and we 're into a tie-break on arthur ashe . can the brit come through ?
muguruza quickly falls 0-15 down after a backhand winner from the american , but she replies with a well-struck backhand of her own . williams moves two points away , but back comes muguruza , who catches the line with a shot off the round . her third ace of the day earns game point , but serena responds with a strong return . a double fault gives set point to williams , and it 's taken with a brutal forehand winner from the back of the court .
lisicki ends a run of nine straight games against her to get on the board in the third set .
williams misses a couple of first serves , but her second serve is still a pretty impressive weapon , and cirstea seems to have no answers at the minute . the 26th seed does manage to fight back to 40-30 thanks to a couple of long shots from the top seed , but a long return allows the american to hold serve .
stop the press ! we have a hold of serve , at last ! jankovic leads 5-4 meaning that radwanska is now serving to stay in the set .
hantuchova cruises into a 40-0 lead before a sweet forehand winner and a double fault give azarenka hope at 40-30. however , hantuchova then comes up with a big first serve , which azarenka hammers low into the net , much to her vocal disgust .
azarenka is left shocked when halep delivers a superb backhand to clip the line , with a challenge prompting a second round of applause from the crowd . a chance arrives when halep shows her class on the opposite side with a forehand winner as azarenka moved a couple of steps in the other direction . azarenka gets on the board in the game with a fine volley after reading the pass . however , a forehand into the net gifts break point to halep , who is powerless to prevent her rival from hitting back with a powerful stroke that leaves her helpless behind the baseline . a second break point is secured when halep gets on top of another short ball to produce a brilliant forehand to force the error from azarenka , who gets level once again when the romanian goes long on the stretch . halep just will not go away . a seventh break point of the set for the second seed arrives with an azarenka error , and another mistake sends a forehand into the net . what a match !
sharapova takes a slightly more aggressive approach to this game , but in doing so , finds herself 15-30 down after two mistakes . williams then connects with a first-serve return to earn two break points and a net cord allows her to convert the first with a forehand winner inside the court .
she takes it , just !
however she finds the net again and radwanska breaks straight back in what could prove to be a telling match .
pironkova nets a backhand and the pole is back in this game - however , she then puts a return wide and pironkova makes no mistake afterwards to slam a backhand down the line .
serena takes her ace count to 10 by hitting two more en route to holding to 15. she is now just one game away from round four .
williams is much more aggressive on the return this time around , playing a superb forehand to the baseline , but garcia responds with a cross-court winner . the frenchwoman manages to get plenty of power on her final two serves , forcing williams to hit her returns into the net , giving garcia another hold . it 's been a composed start from garcia , she seems to be a better match for williams on grass than she was on the clay at roland garros .
and finally after nine attempts we have a hold of serve . now this second set will get really interesting , with both players searching for a late breakthrough !
serena looks to be hitting freely when she gets into a rally but she fails to seal a love hold when missing with a routine forehand . the american makes a second error on the next point but she eventually comes through with a hold to 30 .
and just like that bartoli has taken the opening set , in rather fortunate circumstances . a poor choice of drop set caught stephens by surprise , with the american chasing the ball down easily but still managing to miss the net with a forehand pass .
kvitova serves better than in her previous two games , but robson makes some stunning returns to force a break point . kvitova found a couple of aces to help her see out the game , and is now just one game away from the third round .
this time , she 's far more comfortable on serve , despite a double fault at 40-15. a 4-2 lead puts her in the driving seat in the set , though .
robson finds some important serves , and backs them up with two big forehands up the line which fly past wozniacki . the briton then hits a backhand wide after a hard-fought rally but takes the game with an ace .
stephens makes a few costly errors and faces two break points . williams rifles into the net on the first one , but the youngster pushes an inside-out forehand just wide and williams gets an early break .
mattek-sands tried to rush the issue there and on second serve hits her return long . too many errors so far and sharapova has hardly had to work for her break .
sharapova has a solid serving game , managing to get a run of first serves in to keeps vandeweghe stretched on the return to take a 40-15 leads . she misses a serve while trying to close out the game , allowing the american to get a point back , but on the next point the russian gets her fourth ace of the match , leaving her just once game off a spot in the semi-finals .
break : great defence by azarenka , but it is not enough as sharapova finds the line again and again . it eventually proves too much for the belarusian , who expressed her dismay with a loud cry of frustration .
mattek-sands just can not cope with sharapova when her shots are hitting their target . break point quickly becomes advantage to the russian but she then hits a forehand down the line into the tramlines and a fourth double fault . this time the american can take advantage and gets one of the breaks back .
serena opens with a couple of aces to move herself to two game points before vinci concedes the opener on the first with a return into the net .
after the first four points are shared , vinci prevails from a rally after pennetta hooks a forehand long , but what a reply from the first-set winner , who connects with a forehand into the corner . pennetta takes the game when vinci leaves the court open with a drop shot and her opponent has the easy task of hitting a backhand down the line . big service game coming up for vinci .
match ! williams nets a second-serve return to once again leave vinci three points away , and make that two with a super drop volley on the bounce . wow . it 's 30-0 , and make that 40-0 ! serena nets a volley and it 's three match points to vinci ! she only needs one - another drop volley seals the most incredible of wins . in . cred . i. ble .
cirstea makes a bright start , coming inside the baseline to put watson under pressure to open up a 40-15 lead before the brit return a serve long to give her opponent a comfortable hold .
keys launches into a forehand from the baseline and it drops inside the court to get her to 15-15. venus regains a slender lead but back comes keys who blasts a cross-court backhand to bring up break point . it 's saved by the 18th seed , who saves a second soon afterwards , but on the third occasion , the 19-year-old levels after williams goes wide from inside the court . drama !
easy hold for radwanska there . she looks in good form , even at this early stage . on a side note , it looks extremely hot in new york ! jankovic in particular seems to be struggling .
well , the youngster just does n't know when she 's beaten . she gets into the second serve and williams nets a backhand to level it once more .
but for all of the belarusian 's hard work , serena bats home a forehand winner to seal the hold .
double faults galore from bartoli sees sharapova level up the second set . both of these players appear to have service games that can self-implode at any minute !
all too easy for the experienced bartoli , who gets the early break in the second set by staying strong with a backhand return down the line . you have to make the former finalist favourite for the match now , with stephens struggling to deal with adverse conditions this evening .
williams starts the game with her third double fault of the match , before a superb forehand from kuznetsova just clips the sideline . a long ball lets williams back into the game before the american gets a lucky strike off the net chord to leave the world number 40 rushing into the net . another double fault gives kuznetsova a break point . a strong return from the russian allows her to take the game , leaving williams visibly angry herself at the other end of the court .
her professional career could be about to end but clijsters is delivery some amazing defence to stay in this one . 5-5 in the breaker .
the italian has come flying out of the traps and she moves ahead 40-15 with strong work on the serve , backed up by some good pressure tennis on the attack . vinci closes out her hold when mladenovic spoons a poor backhand beyond .
li starts with a brilliant return against vinci 's second serve , but the italian manages to get some stunning backhands in to take the game to deuce . li gains advantage , and is handed the break when the italian serves a double fault .
azarenka starts her service game with a double fault . li 's pace behind the baseline helps her dominate rallies with the belarusian , and brings up two break points with a stunning backhand while sliding towards the outside of the court . a slow serve from the top seed allows li an easy return , and she break azarenka 's serve again .
another pretty comfortable hold for radwanska . i expect she 'll come at keys 's serve again here for what would be a crucial break .
but she ca n't save the other , as azarenka once again goes after niculescu 's weak second serve . azarenka took control of the point and will now serve for the match .
williams moves 15-0 ahead when wozniacki fires long in the first point of the final , but the american then hits a forehand wide for 15-15. a forehand pass moves the defending champion 30-15 ahead , but williams then nets for 30-30. wozniacki has break point when williams hits another one long , but an ace saves williams for deuce . williams then comes to the net to move onto advantage , before holding with a smash at the net .
as in the first set , bouchard has broken at the first time of asking . it 's poor from ivanovic as she frames an easy backhand into the net .
stosur opens up the second set with a hold of serve . robson must follow suit here otherwise this could be over very quickly .
ivanovic very efficient from the baseline today . jankovic is quick but even she is unable to reach some of these ivanovic forehands . a good hold and ivanovic is one away from a straight-sets win .
there 's that dodgy bit of court again as pironkova slips . she 's ok , but lost her advantage and radwanska follows it up with advantage of her own and then a volley for the game . so the bulgarian has to serve this one out , then .
a love hold for williams , but there were some encouraging signs for lisicki there as she spurned two of the points with unforced errors .
williams breaks ! she treats the italian 's second serve with complete and utter contempt , as she swats it back onto the baseline with plenty of interest .
williams is continuing to make too many unforced errors , giving lim a 40-15 lead as the french player tried to break back . however , a fantastic forehand down the middle of the court from williams followed by a long effort from lim allowed the top seed to pull it back to deuce . williams used her big serve to gain advantage before lim fired long again , allowing the world number one to escape . that 's a big game for both players , lim could so easily have got the set back on serve there , but williams 's tenacity came through to leave her in control .
sharapova breaks back ! losing that service game made sharapova angry and she channels her anger into two massive forehand winners to move 0-30 ahead , before breaking to love .
erakovic begins with a double fault , which she follows up with a forehand error . missed opportunity for robson , who ca n't put away a forehand to bring up three break points , but some superb net play brings up two of them . unbelievable ... just , unbelievable . erakovic double faults once more , and robson has the double break .
sharapova gets a few break points , mainly from poor makarova shot selection . she finally takes one and breaks at the first time of asking in the set . this could run away from makarova .
the russian gets a bit of luck on the first point as the ball clips the net and bounces over , but a poor shot on the volley from the 26-year-old brings halep level as he misses the line . halep commits two unforced errors to put makarova in charge as he slams another forehand into the net , while she shanks her return from the next serve . the russian wins the game with excellent tennis as she works halep around the court before picking her spot .
azarenka makes a strong start , picking up the opening couple of points , but williams hits back with some powerful returns , but a double fault from the belarusian hands the top seed a chance to break . williams hits her return wide on the next point though to take the game to deuce . a volley close into the net hands azarenka advantage , before a big serve results in another long return from the top seed , allowing azarenka to escape with her serve intact .
it 's three games in a row for radwanska , two of them against serve , as lisicki fires a backhand out .
robson shows plenty of aggression in taking the opening point with a return , but she goes wide with the next and it 's 15-15. she shows more power to find the corner with a cross-court backhand to move two away from the break . wow ... erakovic shanks a second serve and it 's two break points ! robson tries to keep on the offensive , but she sends a forehand long , but she stuns her opponent with a forehand winner and she is back in this match ! now then ...
a brave drop shot from azarenka brings her back into the game at 15-30. she then wins the following three points in double-quick time to hold and extend her lead in the set to 5-2 .
she takes it ! last year 's beaten finalist stays in a defensive point and keys , going again for the big winner , finds the sidelines and is broken . potentially that 's a crucial break .
the first point is a shocker from williams , who gets herself into a muddle and sends a straightforward volley wide of the tramlines . however , she remains composed , drilling down four huge serves to win the game .
it 's a battle and she has to save a number of break points , but ivanovic eventually holds . she 'll hope not all of her service games are that tough - a very strong start from jankovic .
robson has only won 25 % of the points behind her second serve , but she opens the next set by improving that stat . the 19-year-old then displays her ability behind her first with two quick points , but erakovic denies her the game by finding the baseline with a forehand . however , robson gets her first bit of luck in the match when she hits the net cord and the ball drops over to give her the perfect morale booster as she attempts to get back into this match .
back on her own serve , radwanska pushes 30-0 ahead and that soon becomes 40-0 when keys fires a poor forehand across the face of the court and wide . radwanska soon closes out the game when keys goes long and out yet again .
azarenka is furious on court as hawkeye does not arrive on the big screen , which leaves halep waiting to serve once again . a few angry words are exchanged with the umpire , who does not know how to respond . it is good news for azarenka when a couple of errors from halep make it 0-30 , but she hands a point back by finding the net with a forehand . halep then gets level with a cleverly disguised forehand winner to wrong-foot her rival . superb ! azarenka hammers a forehand down the line and halep somehow gets a return back over the net , but the 20th seed shows her touch at the net with a brilliant half volley . break ! halep goes long with the forehand and it is azarenka is in front in the decider .
after that , though , it 's a comfortable hold for the pole , who confirms the break .
it 's too good from radwanska , who runs pironkova all over the court before hitting the forehand winner to consolidate the break . i ca n't see the bulgarian getting back into this now .
williams finally meets some resistance on her serve , but she holds safely to take the opener 6-3. just 28 minutes that took .
the german does manage to hold serve though as serena uncharacteristically dumps a pair of backhand returns into the net .
keys is absolutely leathering the ball now and venus is having to work hard to stay in each point . at 15-15 , keys is all over a venus second serve and she repeats the feat on the next point . she has two break points for a level game , and for a third point in succession , the return gets the job done . remarkable stuff . she has won 12 of the last 15 points .
there it is at the first time of asking . that is surely the crucial break in this first set , and now she just needs to hold . i say just ... she 's been far too inconsistent up to now for this to be a dead cert .
good stuff from halep , who comes through with the love hold . pennetta gifted her a couple of points though , especially the last point where a drive volley was fired into the net .
this really is n't one for those who are fans of serving . kvitova opens the game with another double fault , before missing several more first serves , allowing robson easy returns against the second .
under pressure kanepi just gets enough venom behind her first serve to earn the hold , despite some welcome signs of a response at the baseline from robson to win successive points .
more ferocious hitting sees sharapova take the opening point what an unbelievable response from kirilenko ! sharapova smashes the ball into the corner but after kirilenko produces a excellent backhand pass , she made ground at the net to put away a forehand . that is surely the point of the day . however , sharapova comes through with a hold to 30 and kirilenko will serve to remain in the first set .
well that did n't last long ! stosur looked to be in command at 40-15 in front , but azarenka fought back to level up the score . a big opportunity squandered by stosur .
azarenka tries a drop shot , but it 's poorly executed and gives li two break points . she saves the first but a forehand on the next point goes long . the defending champion challenges , but it was a good couple of inches out . the break means it 's back on serve in the second set .
it 's a sensational response from bacsinszky who brings up two break-back points but williams shows the resilience of a champion by connecting with an ace and backhand conversion at the net to hold onto her serve . big moment .
wozniacki 's backhand is coming into full effect now . she 's putting it away with regularity . after losing the first point , the dane went on to win four points in a row and get on the board first .
sharapova finds some of her strongest serving of the match to force some incredible defensive play from williams , but the russian is too strong from the baseline , wrapping up the game by forcing a mis-hit from the american . that was sharapova 's strongest game of this second set , but she 'll need to keep that up against the williams serve next if she 's to get back into the match .
azarenka breaks : the opening set appears to be getting away from hantuchova , who is broken to love for the second time tonight . azarenka is starting to find her form , hitting three winners in game seven . she will now serve for a one-set lead .
brutal from williams , who steps in to fire a backhand straight back at her opponent , but have nerves started to set in ? williams double-faults , before sending a routine baseline shot over the mark . she then does the same with a backhand and it 's two break points for azarenka ! a forehand winner saves the first , but she dumps another shot long of the baseline . we are back on level terms in this set !
vinci ended the last game with plenty of head shakes , but to her credit , she breezes to 40-15 in next to no time . another onslaught from williams sees the game extended to deuce but the american makes a couple of unforced errors and vinci is on the board for the second set .
the short break seems to have done the russian good . she wins her serve without much resistance from the german .
a strong effort there from bartoli to get the opening hold , showing power and depth to force errors in successive baseline rallies . that is what the 28-year-old has based her success on at sw19 in recent years , grinding out tough points deep at the back of the court .
she makes no mistake this time ! immediately sharapova dominates the point from the baseline , goes deep into the corner to set up an easy winner . this set is almost over .
sharapova fights back to move ahead in the game but a thumping return brings us to another deuce . it 's again point for point , with sharapova saving a few break points but is powerless to stop a li forehand to net . li will serve for the first set .
this time she gets it ! could spell trouble for bartoli . sharapova now serving for the set .
consecutive errors from both players leave the scores at 30-30 on bacsinszky 's serve . the switzerland star pulls out in front as she forces muguruza into a forehand error with a swipe into the net . bacsinszky serves well and her opponent 's return has too much on it as it flies beyond the baseline .
after failing to win the double-break , this is an important game for doi , but two quick points see her move 30-0 ahead . kvitova then goes long off a return , but keeps in the game after doi nets . however , the czech player has completely lost her range , and doi moves one away from leveling the match after kvitova puts too much on a forehand .
halep 's game has completely dropped off and a double fault gives pennetta another look at two break points . she sets up the conversion on the next point but the laziest backhand volley you will ever see goes into the net . halep hauls her way back to game point , but pennetta is n't finished and a couple of brutal exchanges end with the italian on top .
keys skews a return almost into the crowd and radwanska wraps up her first hold to love with her first ace . she 's looking in control at the moment , but could do with a break while she 's on top .
knapp forces sharapova to serve to stay in the set by holding to 15 .
radwanska comes out for the second set on the attack and moves 0-40 ahead . na finishes off with an atrocious backhand and it 's the perfect start for the pole .
that 's better from the 22-year-old japanese player , who fires a backhand winner from the baseline for 15-15. kvitova takes the next two points , but doi has her opponent on the run during the next rally to remain in the game . the former wimbledon comes through though , to establish a 4-0 advantage after 17 minutes .
well , i did n't see it coming in that game , but kvitova has her fourth in a row . makarova has n't won one today and she could be out before she knows it !
the russian starts well in the next game to move 30-0 ahead , but lets azarenka back in with a couple of errors . azarenka forces deuce with a fine backhand down the line but kuznetsova manages another , very tight , hold .
vinci comes good with wonderful strike down the line , but it is not good enough to stop mladenovic who eventually closes out another hold when vinci fails on the forehand .
the azarenka challenge starts to fade at the start of the game as two errors open the door to halep , who is powerless to prevent the belarusian from hitting back with a volley after moving her from side to side . halep 's forehand then goes long , before azarenka moves to game point with a fantastic backhand winner . great response from the former world number one . she wraps up the game to ensure that halep must finish the job on her serve .
a couple of superb returns from cirstea put the brit under pressure , but a stunning forehand down the sideline from watson pulls the game back to 30-30. cirstea commands a lengthy rally from the baseline on the next point though to bring up the first break point of the match , and the brit gives the game away with a double fault . she 'll be disappointed with that game .
the disappointment of missing out on the break points appears to be playing on cirstea 's mind at the start of the game as she serves a double fault , before dragging her forehand wide . the romanian goes for a volley , but it 's slightly too high , and she gets a poor contact with the ball , giving williams three break points , and another ball to the net gifts the american the break .
kvitova also finds confidence with her serve , and takes an easy hold against her teenage opponent .
sure enough , li takes it . that was definitely a forgettable set of tennis - despite it lasting more than an hour - with 25 and 20 unforced errors respectively .
so far , kirilenko does n't look fazed by the challenge in front of her , but sharapova holds in far more comfortable fashion than the first . both players have started well .
the kazakhstani does really well to pull level for deuce , but then mishits a return , before hitting the next shot into the net and venus is strolling .
we 've had 10 breaks of serve in this match so far and we are soon on our way to an 11th when keys lashes the ball around the court before sealing two points with winners . venus finds a way back to 30-30 but another dominant point creates the break point . venus throws down a second serve and it 's enough to give the advantage to keys , who thunders down a forehand winner . it 's getting to a tense time now !
brilliant . williams does n't give muguruza a chance of staying in the set . three aces and an unreturned serve down the middle bring the world number one level . we 're heading into a deciding set . what a match .
another hold from knapp - this time to 30 .
halep wins the first point in the game as makarova finds the net for the first time in the match , but another error from the number 23-year-old brings the russian level . good tennis from halep edges her ahead again , but back-to-back double faults hand makarova another break point . halep shows further signs of her nerves as she miscues a smash after putting the 10th seed on the back foot to fall 3-0 behind in the set .
that 's delightful . sharapova hits a perfectly-executed topspin lob that drops in and brings up the hold . lovely stuff .
serena hits long and is broken to love ! azarenka is now just two games away from her second grand slam title .
what a start from safarova , who sets up a baseline winner after an incredible return of serve . serena responds with an ace and she should be 15-30 down , but her opponent misses a sitter of a forehand . she could rue that ! williams is two points away from the title , and it stays that way after safarova unleashes a monster of a forehand down the line . it 's 30-30. will it be match point or break point ? it 's break point ! serena nets and gives the czech a chance to break back , which she does with a stunning backhand down the line . incredible stuff .
williams races to a 30-0 lead , but a failed drop shot allows cirstea back into the game . a brilliant return by the romanian gives her her first break points of the match , but her forehand finds the net , sending the game to deuce . williams sends cirstea running along the length of the baseline with a series of well-times ground strokes , and she wraps the game up with another powerful serve . the mistake on the drop shot seemed to unsettle the world number one for a minute or so , but she recovered well to save the break point .
break back ! this time she takes it with a magnificent topspin backhand lob ! what a shot ! the crowd are right on her side now !
lisicki 's having all the luck at the moment ! she gets a dead net cord to move to 40-0 before blasting down a 119mph serve out-wide to hold .
a dipping forehand from robson hits the line and stephens mistimes her shot , firing into the net . robson holds crucially .
and she has responded positively , although radwanska made her work extremely hard there . the pole took the game all the way to deuce .
bacsinszky shakes off the disappointment of losing that set by taking the first two points of the third set , but the american replies with two venomous winners to get back to 30-30. bacsinszky should win the next point but she goes for too much on a simple forehand and this is serena 's chance to break . unbelievably , bacsinszky misses another sitter on her forehand and she is broken . it 's a terrible way to lose serve .
break back ! this is great ! it 's three breaks of serve in a row as lisicki manages it on the second . serena came to the net but it was a weak approach and lisicki hit a pass that serena could n't get down to .
it 's a bit scrappy from both players and there are n't many rallies happening . kerber holds to 30. three holds of serve in a row , that seemed unlikely at the end of the last set .
another comfortable hold for williams .
i have to say the romanian does n't look much good . azarenka is playing well , mind , but i reckon this one could be over very quickly . that 's not very profound , i know , as she 's 4-0 up in the first .
pennetta finds her range off the ground to move to 30-15 but halep is the beneficiary of a lucky net cord to get to 30-30. the pair trade winners to get to deuce , but halep looks the more confident on the next points . she is crushing everything and her opponent comes up with the error . what a turnaround . high-quality match .
good start to the set from azarenka , who picks up where she left off with powerful groundstrokes . williams ca n't cope right now , and azarenka comfortably holds .
deft from vinci ! the italian sees mladenovic charging so instead she scoops across the court to catch her cold , before the frenchwoman does exactly the same to the italian on the next play . vinci eventually powers through to hold when mladenovic 's backhand is wayward twice in a row .
sharapova looks to have taken her foot off the accelerator slightly , allowing williams to a 30-15 lead before fighting back to take the game , winning a sensational rally .
more confident serving sees stephens crash a second ace down the middle , before a clever wide serve soon makes it ace number three . bartoli just caught on her heels there deep at the baseline , allowing the american to quickly claim a love service game of her own .
kanepi is really struggling now , making some poor shot selections , allowing lisicki to blast a couple of easy winners past her , before two careless shots to the net allow lisicki to break . it 's difficult to see the estonian getting back into this now .
kvitova misses her opening serve but manages a second-serve ace , before following with a fairly solid performance to take the game . how long can they keep this up ? !
safarova takes the opening point with more aggressive play and she moves a mini-break ahead after a double fault from williams - her seventh of the match . it 's 3-0 to safarova after a backhand finds the net but serena hangs tough in the next point to force the mistake from the left-hander . safarova re-opens her three-point advantage when williams sends a backhand return wide of the line but williams reaches the chance of ends at 4-2 with a huge first serve .
robson breaks ! the teenager converts with a wonderful combination play . she manoeuvres kirilenko out of position with a precise backhand and then ends the point with a ruthless forehand winner .
this has turned into an important game for the 26th seed and she delivers a mixed bag of shots . at 30-30 though , she gets lucky when vinci nets a return but the half-volley lob that seals the game is majestic . she 's one game away .
serena continues her dominance on her serve as he nails an ace to earn her first point of the game , and keys ca n't keep the rallies going as well as she would wanted as she fires two strokes into the net . another error soon follows from the 19-year-old to give the number one seed a relatively easy hold . williams has the chance to force a break to secure the set .
gotcha ! fantastic start from robson , whose powerful shot to the baseline causes stosur no end of problems . the aussie gets her racket to the ball , but it 's high and wide . a hold from the brit now and she is in business .
three more commanding points takes sharapova to the brink of the game , but a double fault gives kirilenko a temporary reprieve . there 's still no sign of kirilenko wilting to any degree and she wins a lengthy rally with a cross-court forehand . kirilenko manages to get back to deuce , but she does n't have enough to stop her opponent moving to within one game of the second round .
muguruza has risen to every challenge so far , but a double fault puts her in some trouble at 0-30. there 's only one way to hit back . a fast unreturned serve . williams responds well to come forward and find two break points with a forehand winner . muguruza hits the net , and williams will now serve for the second set .
oh wow . ivanovic plays the perfect point before dumping the easiest of backhand volleys into the net . that 's going to do her confidence no good at all . safarova moves to 30-0 with a big forehand winner before three set points are created with an ace down the middle . the czech only needs the one as ivanovic sends a return long .
frightening hitting from azarenka ! she holds to draw level in the second set .
the british number one comes out on top in a couple of longer rallies before a powerful forehand down the line brings her to game-point . a long backhand and yet another double-fault turn the game on it 's head , but robson eventually saves the game , putting away a short ball with her forehand .
williams is having to fight for every point at the moment as lim has n't given up on this set . the french player makes her opponent run the length of the baseline before the world number one fires wide , but williams kept her cool to find a big serve , which lim returned long .
robson holds despite some good returning from kvitova . the czech has been screeching every time she won a point , while hanging her head at every miss , she 's really letting her emotions show . robson , meanwhile , looks fairly calm .
serena still has the cough that she has been carrying all week but it does n't stop another two aces and one unreturned serve helping her to a 40-0 lead . cibulkova gets on the board but only briefly after striking a second-serve return out of the court .
brilliant stuff from the american . a stunning forehand lands just on the line to give her a 30-0 lead . two big serves from kirilenko level the game before a long forehand hands williams a break point , and she converts it when the russian sends the ball long again .
a double fault and a couple of mis-hit forehands from li give azarenka two break points . it looks like li has saved the first when azarenka fires the ball long , but a challenge reveals it was in . the reigning champion is unhappy that she is n't awarded the point , but the crowd , who are still firmly behind li , boo as she argues with the umpire and she lets it go , before playing a brilliant volley to take the game on the next point .
williams begins with an ace of her own , before a cross-court forehand finds the line . a massive serve down the middle is too hot to handle for the teenager , before williams converts a volley into the open court for a love-service hold . barty is struggling a little with her footing at the moment .
intelligent play from robson , who wrong-foots her opponent on the opening point , who then double faults once more and the brit is two points away from the fourth round . that 's a fine response from the new zealander , who puts away a neat volley at the net , which is followed up with her 12th ace for 30-30. it 's match point to robson after a return just clears the net , but she ca n't convert off a solid serve from erakovic . so close from the 19-year-old , who misses the tramline by an inch , and erakovic saves the match with a serve out wide .
both players trade winners on the opening two points before muguruza registers her first ace . however , serena is warming into this now and a smash helps her reach deuce . the spaniard holds on though when serena makes a couple of mistakes .
hmm , that was an odd service game from vinci - she comes up short on every third ball to hand a break straight back to mladenovic .
it is a quick hold for wozniacki . she 's taking full advantage of kuznetsova 's lapse in concentration . the russian has not made many more unforced errors in this set , but the ones she has made have come on crucial points . wozniacki will be looking for the 'insurance break ' now .
that 's not the start to the second set that radwanska wanted . muguruza powers her way to 0-40 , and although radwanska provides a response , the spaniard 's backhand proves too hot to handle . she could run away with this match from here .
she 's a clever one , is radwanska . she closes out the game by drawing li into the net and swiping away the volley that is presented to her .
that is as good a backhand winner as you 're likely to see for the next fortnight ! sharapova catches it on the half-volley and although her opponent is well placed it flies past her for 1-1 .
kvitova finally seems to have put her struggles on serve behind her and is making robson pay . the brit is finding it difficult to make good returns against some sensation serves from the eighth seed .
two great shots from sharapova hand her control of the game as she races into a 30-0 lead , but an error from the 2008 champion brings makarova into the game as she crashes a forehand into the net . however , an ace and a powerful forehand stroke secure the game and an overwhelming advantage in the first set . makarova needs to work very hard to get back into this one .
it is becoming increasingly evident that kvitova is struggling a bit with her game , and doi coasts into a 40-0 advantage , before the japanese player converts an easy forehand put-away at the net to remain ahead in the set .
venus finally has some success against the injured keys to open up a 0-30 lead . the 19-year-old replies with an ace but on the next point , the 18th seed works keys around the court before the error comes . keys shows tremendous guts to get back to deuce but venus has worked out that she is struggling on the backhand side and that 's enough to get back in front . the trainer is back out , and if keys loses this set , i 'd say there is a chance she may pull out , but we will see .
robson breaks ! kirilenko hits her way back to deuce . however , crouching down , she then pats a backhand into the net to give robson another break point , which is converted with a wicked forehand return .
cirstea is struggling early in this match . williams claims the opening two points with some big forehands . the romanian gets her first point of the match when the american hits the ball long , but williams 's strength pays off again , and she forces the break .
mistake feature highly at the start of the second game of the set as the pattern of the match continues . makarova hits the net with a loose backhand , and then overhits her forehand on the next shot to hand halep control of the game . halep hits a winner to earn three break points , but the russian rallies with good tennis to cut it to a single point . her serve comes her rescue again with a shot down the 't ' to force a couple of errors from halep to bring up a game point . makarova secures a crucial hold as halep overhits her forehand , which could be a long way in helping her secure the match .
after robson takes the first point , erakovic is unlucky to fall victim to a poor call from the lines judge , but she still takes the replayed point . where has this laura robson been ? two quick points , the second of which is an ace out wide , and she has two game points . the new zealander saves the first , but robson shows immense speed to chase down a drop shot to put away the winner .
radwanska has another chance to break and this time she does , drawing li forward with a slice and the chinese ca n't whip it over .
hmmmm . the pole also breaks to love and that 's one of the oddest starts you 'll see to a tennis match . expect many more breaks today as neither woman is particularly confident on serve but much better at returning .
williams looks in an uncompromising mood as he drills a backhand winner down the line , but safarova responds well to get to 30-15. williams remains in the game with more heavy hitting but safarova comes through with the hold and that shouldsettle any lingering nerves that she may have .
very high success rate from stephens at the net and she sets up a first break point with a good approach . a booming forehand later and she 's back on serve ! excellent from the american .
these planes just wo n't go away . it must be distracting the players . muguruza gifts williams a point with a wild backhand which drifts long . the umpire steps in to call the ball out in the next rally , and williams , who rarely challenges , does n't ask for the technology . they exchange points once again , and we hear a first `` come on '' from williams . however , a double fault brings up break point . muguruza is almost on her knee to force deuce with a backhand which clips the line . she needs to produce some magic again to save break point with a perfectly constructed rally which ends with williams finding the net . the quality is very high . muguruza takes advantage , but williams responds with a forehand winner off the second serve . a similar effort produces a third break point . she misses the chance to convert again , and muguruza eventually capitalises to hold with another winner . that could be a crucial hold .
she 's finally on the board here and it took a while coming . pironkova played two really good points , but the pole did well to quell her efforts there . still two break behind , though .
after a real battle in that one kuznetsova serves a double fault . it 's a double azarenka break and there wo n't be long left in this match .
sharapova begins her service game with a dime right down the middle of the court which bouchard ca n't return . bouchard continues her nervy start with a poor backhand into the net before sharapova double faults . more tennis poor tennis from the 20-year follows as she hits her first shot of the rally into the net and then out to lose the game . not a good start from the seventh seed .
the double is followed by a careless volley but she manages to hold as li misses a simple forehand of her own at the net .
better from sharapova , who connects with a second-serve return to win the first point , but the russian goes just wide in the next point . the pair trade mistakes , before serena drills down a 120mph ace . a double fault follows , but another ace - this time at 118mph - helps the american to the hold .
that 's impeccable length from erakovic , who finds the tramline with a forehand . the service barrage continues too , as she records her fifth ace to move to 40-0. robson takes the next point with some aggressive hitting from inside the court , but an excellent second serve seals the game for erakovic .
she does n't want to wait any longer kvitova . a really strong service game ends with an angled drop shot that makarova ca n't get to . we 're with serve in the third , but the momentum is all behind kvitova .
kvitova has had some success at the net today , despite using her shots there sparingly . she comes in for a volley early in this game though , helping her to a 30-0 lead . pennetta hits a run of excellent serves though , resulting in more errors from the czech to allow her to keep the set on serve .
keys continues to show some power off her own serves and she forces radwanska into several errors , before grasping a lead with a standout ace . the american wraps up the game when her opponent ca n't quite come up with the required forehand to return .
ivanovic finishes a superb game with an ace and takes the set at the same time . marvellous tennis .
the pole saves another break point on her way to a hold . she 's not on top , however , and keys looks most likely to break . however , if radwanska manages it here then she takes the set .
break back ! she 's done it ! when serena broke early in the set most would have expected the american to race away with it like she did in the second . however , lisicki is a fighter and breaks back in the third thanks to williams 's pulled backhand .
williams is struggling to get her first serve in at the moment , but it does n't seem to be hampering her too much , she raced to a 40-0 lead before allowing her opponent a point after missing a low forehand , then forcing a mistake from cornet to take game .
serena holds so azarenka will now serve for the us open title ! can she keep her nerve ?
sharapova ends up cruising to the second set . she is looking good now as the match heads into a decider . bartoli will have to match her or this could be over very soon .
the serving is excellent as williams races to 40-0 without giving her rival a sniff . muguruza attempts to get on top of a second serve , and the results are excellent as she sends williams the wrong way with a forehand . `` shot , '' responds williams . you ca n't argue with that . a lob in the next rally looks to put muguruza in trouble , but she retreats to execute the perfect smash . however , an ace hands the game to williams .
too good from radwanska in that rally . a 26-shot rally ends with li going long after typical accurate hitting from the pole . she will now serve for the set .
li copes well with vinci 's dangerous backhands , coming into the net again , and this time winning the point with a stunning volley . an aggressive forehand brings up two more break points for the chinese player . she takes it with some strong forehands from just inside the baseline . what a start it 's been by the australian open finalist .
better from safarova , who powers an inside-out forehand into the corner for 30-0 before she repels some heavy hitting from her opponent to earn three game points . a love hold is completed when ivanovic blasts a return long of the baseline .
a hold to love for bartoli . she 's now one game away from the match . the crowd tries to lift lisicki as she prepares to serve but she must know that she has lost this .
sharapova takes control of the second set as her power proves too much for the 20-year who makes mistakes on every point to hand the russian the game . it is looking a bit ominous for the canadian now !
a comfortable service game to 15 brings up the opening set for li . she 's been utterly brilliant so far and sharapova - yes , sharapova - has had no answers at all . the russian is in trouble and must come out fighting in the second .
pennetta races into a 40-0 lead , mainly thanks to her trademark cross-court backhand , but vinci remains in the game with a super drop shot that leaves pennetta stranded at the back of the court . vinci then gets the benefit of a net cord and all of a sudden , we have a game on here , but pennetta holds her nerve to convert a volley out of the reach of her opponent .
williams holds to 15 as errani fails with an ambitious drop-shot .
what a huge hold that could be for marion bartoli ! she saves four break points before clinching the second game of the second set .
she was 15-30 down but azarenka fights back to hold for the first time in this match .
a stunning forehand allows williams to move 0-15 ahead when wozniacki can not return , but williams then nets for 15-15. a double-fault from wozniacki allows williams to move 15-30 ahead , but then the american hits a powerful forehand long for 30-30. a second double-fault for wozniacki allows williams to move onto 30-40 , but once again , williams hits long for deuce . the defending champion responds in the next point with a stunning forehand and breaks with a forehand down the line .
at advantage radwanska - twice - keys gets the better of two rallies to finish with big forehand winners . that 's 25 overall of those for the american . however , radwanska finishes with an ace and a really tough service hold . that could be crucial .
some excellent play from robson , allows her to dictate the early points from the baseline , but wozniacki recovers with excellent defensive play , firing a backhand behind her opponent . wozniacki 's defence again plays a big part as she breaks robson with a clever lob and good backhand at the net .
the dominance of each player 's serve is leading to a not very competitive contest at the moment . fascinating , certainly , but there 's not been a sniff of a break yet .
and there it is . makarova plops a tame shot into the net and it 's the perfect start after the long break for the czech . poor from makarova , though .
comfortable hold for li , as zakopalova hits a forehand into the tramlines . can she break again for the win here , or will we go on all night ?
safarova takes a bit of speed off a return and it works wonders as serena swings through her shot too early . it 's 15-15 , which should become 30-30 when safarova controls the fourth point of the game but she drills an attempted passing shot into the net . williams seals the game with a gigantic backhand winner from the baseline and she is well on her way to a third roland garros crown .
kvitova 's power continues to shine through as she moves 15-0 ahead when bouchard fails to return a powerful serve , but kvitova hits the net in the next point for 15-15. two quick points follow for kvitova as bouchard fires long and then hits the net , but kvitova then double-faults for 40-30. bouchard responds again as the game moves onto deuce , but the pair then exchange points for deuce two . eventually kvitova holds with a quite stunning running backhand .
good start to the second set from the american . that first point was the only one she lost and she won the game with a well-worked point , coming to the net for a drop shot .
gajdosova takes another break against the 20th seed in the women 's draw after wickmayer sends a forehand long . the belgian challenges the call , but the ball was out , and the australian will serve for the set .
goodness me , what a start by the chinese . she wins the first four points against serve to immediately break .
she holds comfortably - is radwanska getting a game here ?
which she does ! launching a forehand up the line that dips into the corner . surely that 's game over ?
it looks to be a step too far for the young american . azarenka is still in a very low gear , but seals the set with a quite marvellous lob .
sharapova looks like she 's on her way to a comfortable hold of serve as she fires a backhand down the line , but a double fault on the next point keep vandeweghe in contention , but another stunning stroke down the line from sharapova and a long return from the american allow the fourth seed to consolidate her break .
keys is continuing but she winces when netting a backhand on the opening point . venus senses her moment but despite creating two break points , keys mixes her trademark power with a soft touch at the net to seal an impressive hold . she needed that , and i think it 's safe to say she wo n't be retiring from this match .
serena appears to have got accustomed to the muguruza serve now and a first serve is drilled straight back at the spaniard for 15-30. that soon becomes two break points when muguruza goes long , but the first is saved by some huge hitting from inside the court . the 21st seed does the same on the next point , taking the game to deuce , before muguruza registers two more points courtesy of first serves to get herself out of trouble . big hold .
second set knapp ! another unforced error from the sharapova backhand gives her opponent a break to love . this match is now all square !
good play from cibulkova at 40-15 down , who finds the line to force the error . can li hold ? yes ! an ace down the t levels us up . as it stands , we 're heading to a tie-break .
cibulkova edges 0-15 and 15-30 ahead but on each occasion , serena sends down an ace . she gets to set point with a third , before she completes the set with a fourth down the middle . astonishing power .
muguruza slips 0-30 down as williams senses the early finish , and three break points are created when the spaniard goes long . she only needs one as a flat forehand is n't dealt with by the world number 20 and serena will now serve for her sixth wimbledon title .
despite limited movement wozniacki digs deep to earn a crucial hold to start the second set . cetkovska made consistent unforced errors on the return side in that game , letting her injured adversary off the hook all too easily .
williams goes for a drop shot at the start of the game , but fails to get the ball back over the net . a series of powerful forehands from the back of the court by the world number one force garcia to over-hit the ball , bringing up break point , and williams clinches it with a superb forehand return .
like sharapova , williams is not getting enough first serves in , but her impressive forehand helps her to a 40-15 lead , but a careless shot hits the net . however , williams clinches the game with a well-struck forehand from well inside the baseline .
williams has quickly stamped her authority all over this match . barty looks rushed by the power of the world number one , and williams is 40-0 up in next to no time . that 's much better from the 17-year-old , though , who goes toe-to-toe with serena before drawing the mistake at the net , and williams shows a bit of weakness in throwing in a double fault . however , a first serve finds the mark , and the break of serve is consolidated .
break and set ! li moves to 0-30 , as she did twice earlier on in the second set , but this time is able to convert the advantage and grab the set . we 're headed to a decider on centre !
the dane holds to edge ahead in this final set . we 're still on serve though . this really could go either way .
this is just getting more dramatic with every game ! williams races into a 30-15 lead , but two silly unforced errors gives azarenka break point . a powerful second serve is finished off with a volley by serena to go to deuce , before she hits an eighth ace of the match . a backhand winner sees her cling on , and both sit down for a much-needed break .
it 's an important hold for azarenka . she was down in the game and could have been facing a break , but she remained strong to put the pressure back on stephens .
an early hold for world number two radwanska . over to you miss jankovic .
kvitova continues to be hampered by unforced errors as she quickly slips 40-0 behind . pennetta tries something different , coming into the net in a bid to volley , but mis-times her shot . kvitova ca n't get her return back off the next point though , allowing pennetta to level the scores in the second set .
important hold for sharapova , who battled back from 0-30 to take the game . we have finally seen signs that mattek-sands can play , but her game is still far too error-strewn - she threw her break point chance away .
cirstea is yet to find the rhythm on her serve , making another double fault . however , she digs deep to fight back from 30-0 down to bring up deuce . a long ball from williams gives the romanian advantage , but a forehand to the net returns the game to deuce , before two double faults hand the game to williams .
vinci continues with good work to move 40-0 ahead on her opponent 's service game , a special backhand volley winner coming off mladenovic 's opening serve . vinci wraps up the all-important break when mladenovic fails on the forehand .
muguruza gets the second set underway , but bacsinszky claims the opening point by forcing a backhand error . the spaniard responds by drawing things level , but ca n't follow through as she sends a terrible shot into the net from close range . an impressive rally concludes when muguruza shoots long to establish a break point for bacsinszky , and she takes it by forcing her opponent long down into the corner .
robson still shows a few nerves on serve , adding another double fault , but she recovers , and finishes the game with two stunning aces .
brilliant ! radwanska moves in for the kill at the net after a backhand , but sees the ball fizz past her from the keys forehand . a big break early in the second set for the american .
meanwhile , the belarusian holds so sharapova will now serve to stay in this match . big pressure on the russian .
brilliant start from williams as she hits a superb forehand for 15-0 , but the american then clips wide to hand wozniacki 15-15. williams has 30-15 in the next point when wozniacki hits long of the baseline and the dane follows suit in the next point for 40-15. finally we have a hold of serve when wozniacki nets once more .
the three-time champion hits a couple of crisp winners and she has the hold . azarenka seems to be sussing out the serve a bit more but that 's only half the problem . even if you keep the ball in play you have to deal with serena 's huge groundstrokes .
no , she ca n't . two more awful shots - the first a baffling attempt at a forehand winner when over the highest part of the net - concede the game and that 's now three in a row for the american . she 's improved , certainly , but there 's a strong element of sharapova imploding and she has to sort it out .
sharapova breaks ! we have a third consecutive break as sharapova wins game three to 15. significantly though , unlike the server in the previous two games , knapp was serving from the less-sun-affected northern end on this occasion . massive moment for maria , who should close out comfortably from here .
vinci is creating openings for herself on the williams serve , but so far , she is n't taking them . a glaring miss with her forehand helps williams create two game points . however , from then onwards , serena looks nervous , and despite saving a break point , she goes long on a second and vinci has the break without doing a whole lot . interesting .
not long now ... cibulkova has not been able to eliminate the errors from her game , while li has to a certain extent . that 's made enough difference for li to be cruising in this second set .
azarenka gets the opening point on the board with a nicely-struck volley , but halep gets her into a rally , leveling the game with a backhand winner . a big serve from the 20th seed is followed up by a superb forehand down the line though , putting her 40-15 up . a double fault prolongs the game though , allowing halep to take it to deuce with a backhand return right on the sideline . halep misses her return though , allowing azarenka to seal it with a couple of solid net shots .
fortune shines on cetkovska once more as a bounce falls her way at the net , saving the second break point to force deuce . that exchange forces a response from the czech contender , who shows some timely aggression to hold with a huge forehand winner across court .
double break ! lisicki 's forehand drifts long and that 's a double break for bartoli who will now serve for the first set .
the set loss has awoken radwanska . eight points from eight go her way to start this set and she 's racing ahead without being brilliant .
sharapova does n't give up , however , and fights back to take the important break .
what a game of tennis ! azarenka double faults again at the beginning of the game , but she recovers to crash a backhand up the line for a clean winner . williams hits back with some powerful groundstrokes , and she finishes the point with a driving volley at the net . the decibel level of their screams goes up and up during the next point , much to the amusement of the crowd , but azarenka wins it with a accurate volley down the line . williams takes it to deuce , but she can only put a slice in the net as azarenka 's intense hitting gets the better of her . the tennis is just getting better and better now , as williams darts forward to squeeze a shot cross court for a winner , before she earns a break point when azarenka nets . can she take it ? no ! she squanders the chance as she over-hits a forehand , but she earns a second with a brilliant backhand winner . azarenka survives for a second time , and then again for a third time when williams chips long . finally , azarenka earns game point but we go back to deuce again as williams sends a forehand down the line . azarenka wins the next two points to hold on though , and that could be crucial .
it 's another hold and again it 's quite comfortable . as it stands we 're heading into a breaker , but i suspect we might see a break in one of the next four games ...
muguruza strikes early with a beautiful passing shot before radwanska goes wide to concede 0-30. the spaniard 's power helps her prevail from a lengthy exchange to earn three break points , and although the first is saved , the second is converted when radwanska slices into the net . this first set is slipping away from the pole .
a short return from sharapova allows williams to come into the court and smash the ball onto the sideline , before the american fires the ball down the opposite sideline into an empty court , with sharapova out of position following the serve . an ace wraps up a strong service game for williams , leaving her just two games from winning the tournament .
stosur has other ideas though . it 's a swift hold from the aussie , who is just two games away from a place in the quarter-finals now .
despite the outburst , azarenka comes through that game and squeals `` come on ! '' to let ivanovic know that she has n't given up on this set yet .
she takes it with her second chance , setting up a point brilliantly to slam the winner at the net . that 's one of two breaks back . this is getting good .
an unlikely break for the romanian as azarenka capitulated . it still needed a clinical touch from niculescu , however , and she goes two up in the second .
good start to her service game from makarova as she creates an opening for a forehand winner , which she slams down the line . sharapova then goes wide with a backhand to hand her compatriot control of the game , but a couple of loose shots from the 10th seed level the game . the 2008 champion slams her backhand into the net , but more nerves are displayed as makarova goes long with her next strike to bring about deuce . the players exchange errors , but sharapova begins to display her power with a smash then backhand winner to earn a break point . sharapova ca n't take the first break point , but she gets another chance as makarova goes wide with a forehand on deuce , before the number two seed pulls out a forehand winner to take a vital lead in the set .
lisicki loses her rhythm on serve , missing her first serve on the opening couple of points , before a double fault brings up three break points for kanepi . she saves the first with a superb volley , but she makes another double fault to gift kanepi the game . that was a shocking game from the german , she did n't make a single first serve !
after the opening two points are shared , the court opens up for keys to make what should be a relatively routine passing shot but she over-hits it by several yards . the 19-year-old hangs around until 40-30 but she ca n't return venus 's next serve and she consolidates the break .
the world number two holds to 40. the game ends with hantuchova slashing a forehand return well wide . prior to that poor shot , all eight second-serve points in this match had been won by the receiver .
lim is on the board with a comfortable opening srevice game . she controls williams 's powerful returns well and uses her speedy footwork behind the baseline to get herself into the position to make winners . this has certainly been a promising start from lim .
what a start for the bulgarian ! both women come into the net but it 's the world number 72 , as radwanska goes wide with a difficult lob . the fourth seed needs to wake up here .
kvitova has gotten into a rhythm on her serve now , and she eases into a 30-0 lead . doi pulls a point back , but kvitova overpowers her opponent when stepping into court to put away a couple of forehands .
i think that williams is intent on finishing this one quickly . she puts barty on the defensive with two huge shots from the baseline , before producing the most delicate of drop shots to move to three break points . the first is saved by barty , but despite having williams on the run in the next exchange , she goes marginally long with a lob , and that 's the double break .
bacsinszky 's opening serve disappoints as she is forced to concede off the backhand . next up is a poor double fault that gives muguruza a 30-0 lead . bacsinszky comes back into it by pushing the spaniard into two errors on the backhand . more great pressure from the swiss player sees muguruza send another backhand high and beyond the baseline , leaving bacsinszky to take the game with a superb forehand volley towards an empty corner at the back of the court .
kvitova moves 15-0 ahead when bouchard nets from the baseline , but bouchard does respond with a brilliant forehand for 15-15. another stunning backhand from kvitova moves the czech onto 30-15 , before bouchard fails to respond to a second serve for 40-15. kvitova moves into the net in the next point , but bouchard fires a backhand down the line for 40-30. deuce then arrives when kvitova wildly fires a forehand past the baseline . eventually kvitova manages to hold with an ace .
vandeweghe claims the opening point of the match with an excellent forehand return . sharapova levels it up with a big second serve on the next point , but is struggling to get her first serves in at the start of this match , allowing the american to put her under pressure at the net and force a wide cross-court forehand from the russian , giving her two break points . sharapova powers her serve down the middle to save the first , while vandeweghe slices her backhand into the net to take the game to deuce . a brilliant backhand return from vandeweghe gives her another chance to take sharapova 's serve , but the russian ups the pace on her serve to save it . a mis-hit from the young american tees sharapova up for a volley though , which allows the fourth seed to escape with her serve intact . what a start from vandeweghe though , bringing up four break points in the opening game of the match .
keys is looking at ease out there as she slams a forehand winner down the line , while she then forces a miscue from serena to take a 30-0 lead . an ace follows as she fires a serve right down the middle , which beats serena for pace , but an unforced errors gifts the 33-year-old a point back . keys secures the hold as williams finds the net with a loose backhand . a great start for the 19-year-old .
a good , and important , hold for pironkova . radwanska cannons a return wide and the bulgarian stays alive in the set .
a winner from li there and she races 3-0 up inside 15 minutes . there 's not a lot going for cibulkova at the moment and if she loses three more games ( without coming back ) she will taste grand slam final defeat . this has been a strong response from li after a very unconvincing first set . to be honest , she 's fortunate she 's against a player who has never been in a final or she might well be a set down .
another gruelling service game but this time it ends in success for stephens . she 's got a game on the board and that will be a boost to her .
halep continues her resurgence as she nails her first serve which yields the first point of the game , while she does extremely well to take control of the game with an excellent backhand after makarova had her on the ropes . two further mistakes from the russian hand halep the game , and just like that she 's back in the set .
however , the pole takes the game and we 're with serve at the moment .
and there it is ! wozniacki makes things interesting . a quick hold would be very welcome . or at least just a hold . i 'm sure she 's not too fussy .
more punishing play from azarenka , who is really finding the corners and sides with her shots . it 's another comfortable service game and the dominant azarenka is three up after just nine minutes . could be a swift day 's work for the 23-year-old .
radwanska races into a 30-0 lead as the game looks to be following a similar pattern as the rest in the set , but the american hits back as she finally produces a solid return game before firing two forehand winners to tie the game at 30-30. keys lets radwanska earn a game point with a loose forehand into the net , and she would come to regret that as the pole produces a fine backhand down the line to repel a fierce baseline drive from the 20-year-old to seal the game . a good contest in that game .
sharapova opens the second set with a hold to love and she is looking far more convincing than she did 30 minutes ago . she 's taken the last five games , and kirilenko needs to find a way of stopping the rot .
that 's huge for azarenka . she holds to love and takes control of this second set , a set that she has to win .
miss robson is within a game of the match , can clijsters take this any further ?
the chinese recovers well from that though to hold serve with a pair of winners , her 12th and 13th of the match .
incredible point to start the game . williams charges to the net , and stretches to get the most unlikely of volley to drop over the net after muguruza attempted the pass . a big serve hands williams another point before muguruza makes it 30-15. a double fault opens the door slightly , but williams hits back with an ace before taking the opener .
the mistakes are totting up for the 19-year-old as she drills a backhand into the net . however , she manages to win the next three points in a row with impressive strokeplay on her forehand to bring about a break , but serena shows her class with an ace to the outside . the errors return from keys and along with excellent serving from the number one seed , she manages to clinch the hold .
sharapova gets herself into li 's next service game with a big forehand for 40-30 , but li again holds and is just fending off the russian at the moment .
it 's the third time sharapova has closed out a game with an ace and it 's now 4-4. azarenka asked plenty of questions in that one but the 2006 champion answered them firmly .
ivanovic ensures that azarenka does n't race clear in the set by holding herself for the first time in five service games . winners : ivanovic 27-8 azarenka , unforced errors : ivanovic 23-17 azarenka .
azarenka is forced to wait for one particularly slow spectator , but she starts the game impressively by following a big first serve with a forehand winner . another powerful forehand follows , before the drive volley moves her further ahead . halep has the chance to put away a forehand in the next rally , but she pays for the hesitation as azarenka moves forward to execute the perfect drop volley . a double fault halts the 20th seed , who recovers to take the game with the next point .
it 's been coming . clijsters breaks thanks to some blockbuster groundstrokes that robson can do little about .
there 's trouble for vinci at 0-30 , but she halves the deficit with a solid serve out wide . however , another wayward forehand gifts her opponent two break points , but pennetta squanders both with weak efforts . four more break points come and go but after a clever forehand catches vinci in an awkward position , pennetta takes her seventh break point when vinci drills the ball into the net .
keys takes the opening point but two unforced errors soon gift venus the advantage . a third baseline mistake gives further encouragement to the 34-year-old , who has two break points , and although the first goes begging , venus produces a big play during the next rally , pounding the keys backhand before driving a winner down the line .
vandeweghe wants the break back as she sprints into the net to return a drop shot , flicking the ball over the net and landing it right on the baseline to bring up deuce . sharapova thumps another big serve towards her opponent to bring up advantage , before the american fires her forehand long , giving sharapova a comfortable lead in the third set as she consolidates her break .
it 's imperative that robson holds serve here . she begins positively , moving into a 30-15 advantage , before erakovic narrowly misses the line with a forehand . the new zealander rockets a return straight back at robson , but the brit replies with a one-two off her serve to take the game .
confident hitting on the stephens forehand puts bartoli under some strain on serve at 30-30 , but a precise first serve soon eases the veteran ahead . a slack forehand from the american then allows bartoli to earn the seventh successive hold of the match .
sharapova appears to have brushed off her shaky start , his hitting her serve well and timing her forehand to perfection , landing on right on the back corner to take a 40-0 lead , before sealing the game with a delicately played shot to the sideline .
keys is dominating this match , and watson is struggling to get a point on the board . another ace for keys makes it 30-0 , and a kick-serve has too much on it and watson nets . keys makes an error to allow watson a glimmer of an opportunity , but she sees out the game .
kvitova still is n't entirely comfortable with her serve , but it 's good enough for her to hold , and robson will need to win the next game to stay in the match .
sharapova has only made two out of 10 first serves so far , but she manages to dig deep and hold to 30 .
willaims breaks to love ... rapidly . morita 's advantage wiped out in an instant , and we 're back on serve .
radwanska gave that up surprisingly easily , but it was much more aggressive from li as she hit the corners a few times .
she holds to love and sharapova immediately drops her sixth game of the tournament . here she comes to serve . can makarova attack ?
keys ' serve has been the only thing keeping her in the match and she continues to be display consistency to draw an error from the pole to win the first point . her accuracy does not wain and she is able to clinch the game with relative ease in a love service game by working radwanska around the court .
she saved that one , but another break point when the russian 's way and she 's now 5-2 up and serving for the set .
it 's radwanska 's turn to come on strong now and she hits hard to establish a chance for a break . keys manages to battle back and brings about her own advantage with what is perhaps her best forehand of the game . keys then produces a vital ace to hold her serve .
again kvitova claims the first point of the game with a sweeping forehand , before firing another forehand past bouchard for 0-30. bouchard moves onto the board in the next point , but then double-faults for 15-40. a stunning forehand from kvitova in the next point gives the czech her second break of the first set .
just as quickly as radwanska got back on top of the match , so has errani . at 40-0 up radwanska smashes poorly , but errani can not take advantage by netting the return . then it 's brilliant from radwanska , who races in to meet a drop shot and plant her response past the reach of the italian . she left herself with too much to do , though , as she goes wide with a backhand smash and we are back level . errani knows how vital that hold was - she 's pumped .
how many times is williams hitting the ball into the net ? it seems like it is every other point , but she does reach 40-30. the next point is tight , but azarenka finally nets from the baseline and we remain on serve .
brilliant tennis throughout the game from halep , who responds with a couple of superb forehands on the only occasions when the rally is extended . she will be determined to get back with serve now .
a double fault ends the game and it 's an incredible turnaround . not long ago li could do nothing wrong but now she ca n't buy a point !
halep produces some excellent defensive tennis behind the baseline , but a forehand on the stretch clips of the net before landing out . she dominates the next rally to unleash a winner , before sending down a big first serve . superb ! azarenka displays the power she is famous for and comes to the court to finish the point with a stunning half volley . break point arrives with a superb drive volley and azarenka makes the breakthrough .
excellent work from williams , who breezes through a service game to hold to love and put the pressure back on muguruza .
niculescu fights her way back into this game but then an even worse effort at a drop shot this time bounces before the net ! i 'd stop trying that if i were her , as azarenka slams a simple half-volley into the net . she gives away a break point but niculescu plops another one into the net . the belarusian survives the scare and goes into a three-game lead .
robson struggles to return the powerful kvitova serve , but does get the better of her opponent when she gets in to a rally . kvitova takes the game , but robson is still in this set .
garcia makes a confident start , wrong-footing williams at the baseline before coming into the net to smash a volley past the american . she wraps the game up with an ace , followed by a forehand winner into an empty court .
kvitova is still taking a while between points , and it almost constantly reaching for her towel , but she 's hitting her serves well , with pennetta getting just two returns in throughout the game , leaving the fifth seed to seal it with an easy forehand after coming inside the baseline . it is worth remembering that kvitova has been struggling with glandular fever in the run up to the tournament , which could be slowing her movement around the court .
kvitova has the tendency to get herself involved in three-set matches , and she nets a volley to allow doi an opportunity at 30-30. however , the world number 92 makes two errors of her own , and kvitova levels things up .
hampton wants to bottle that forehand , she could make a fortune . what can she do on azarenka 's serve now ?
a massive ace on 40-0 helps williams hold to love for the third time today .
impressive hold to 30 by hantuchova , who seals the game with a two-handed backhand winner . serena will now serve for the set .
robson wins a point but it only delays the inevitable as the american wraps up a comfortable hold with a passing forehand winner . stephens now has a big advantage and robson will need to repeat her heroics in the last round to survive .
match ! the first two points are shared before muguruza comes out on top in a rally that sees radwanska go wide . the pole fires back with a flat forehand winner , before she earns break point with a dream of a return . it 's saved by muguruza , but the spaniard throws in a double fault to hand her opponent another chance . it 's saved again , and muguruza has match point after a bad challenge from radwanska . it 's taken with a nerveless drive volley , and the 20-year-old earns her place in her first grand slam final .
key comes up with the vital hold as she displays great accuracy to race into a 30-lead . however , the american commits an error to bring radwanska back into the game , although she abates any fear of a comeback with a sublime smash following a 10-shot rally . another solid point with a forehand winner across the court to tie things up 5-5 .
back on her own serve , muguruza takes an early lead when bacsinszky chops her return low into the net from the baseline . after a bit of a rally , bacsinszky comes up short again when she fires wide of the court with her backhand . the game is soon left at 40-0 when the swiss player needlessly chops wide again , this time with the forehand . muguruza tries to go on the attack at the net , but her rushed shot proves too long and flies beyond the back of the court . the spaniard soon closes proceedings out with a pummelling shot as she opens up on the forehand .
sharapova shows the difference in quality between the players as she nails her forehand on the line , but makarova earns a point back as the 2008 champion finds the net . the 26-year-old delivers a forehand winner of her own down the line , but sharapova returns the favour in the next point to level the scores . makarova staves off the inevitable for the time being as the number two seed makes two errors to hand her the game .
makarova mixes her game up at the start with a couple of drop shots which cause halep major problem as she hangs at the back of the court . halep uses her power at the back of the court to get back into the match , but the russian earns a break point to put her on the brink . halep makes yet another mistake in the match as she uses too much loft on her backhand slice as the ball crashes out .
first set azarenka : the belarusian is thoroughly dominant as she wraps up set one inside 31 minutes thanks to her 12th winner of the night .
sharapova holds to 15. knapp must now serve - from the sunny end - to stay in the australian open .
bacsinszky opens up a 30-15 lead but williams levels things up with a backhand return winner . it 's a bizarre reaction though . she looks like she has nothing left . far from it , but she is on the wrong end of a net cord and bacsinszky is able to seal the game .
sharapova starts poorly , handing williams the first point with a double fault , before firing her forehand into the net . a strong return from the american catches sharapova out , and she hits the ball long , giving williams three more break points . the top seed tries to clinch the game with a delicate volley , but she fails to get in back across the net , but a brilliant return a point later allows her to take the break .
williams gets herself in a hole at 0-30 , but two missed hantuchova forehands level the game before consecutive serena aces seal a hold to 30. hantuchova will be kicking herself . she has now led 15-40 and 0-30 against the serena serve without earning a break . the american has been far from at her best so far , but she has n't been punished .
kuznetsova brings up game point with a superb inside-out forehand but azarenka fights back to deuce . the 27-year-old gets another couple of chances but azarenka forces a break point with kuznetsova hitting long . that too is saved and the game is finally won after more than eight minutes by kuznetsova .
i 've lost count with the numbers of errors that have been made in this match . the pair make two more , before doi just misses with an attempted backhand winner . kvitova makes two more mistakes to give doi a break point , but the sixth error of the game results in kvitova getting deuce . the number seven seed shows a bit more quality over the next two points , firing a winner past doi before getting plenty of speed of a first serve to force doi to go long .
radwanska has earned some good cheap points in the match and she continues with the first point of this game , before keys slices her volley into the net to hand her a 30-0 lead . the pole shows her flexibility to bend down to scoop a low forehand off the floor , but her stroke slams into the net , although she quickly brings up game point as keys follows suit . the american goes for a long forehand on a return and again misses the baseline by a considerable distance to lose the game .
it 's a lively start as both try to dominate from the baseline , but williams claims the opening two points by coming into the net . a poor forehand from sharapova hands the american three break points . despite missing her first serve , the russian saves the first of the break points with a strong serve out wide , before a williams return goes long to take the game to 40-30 , and an ace brings up deuce . the second seed seems to have found her rhythm on serve , and is able to force a couple of mistakes from her opponent to hold serve .
break back ! it does n't take long at all for the serb to get back on serve as azarenka double-faults . it 's quite hard to watch two professionals struggling so much to hold their own serve .
there is a sense that this match could quickly get away from kirilenko but she is contesting every point to her maximum . maybe the time away from the court has freshened her appetite for the game ? a couple of winners off the backhand wing get her back to 40-30 but she nets a return to allow sharapova to get to 3-0 .
a rocket of a backhand gets keys off to a good start in her service game and a pinpoint serve follows to hand her control . two excellent more excellent points follow as she wins her first game of the set , moving the 33-year-old around the court to get herself back on track .
the power that sharapova can get on her forehand when trying to break a serve is scary . she takes a 30-0 lead but loses out on an enthralling rally by putting her backhand out . after jankovic levelled it up , she spooned an effort into the net , before sharapova wrapped up her fourth game of the set .
good start from keys as she fires a forehand at the feet of williams that the 33-year-old can only guide out , and she follows that up with a brilliant ace down the middle of the court . two bad errors from the 19-year-old bring williams back into the game , and another hands serena a break opportunity . the break is serena 's as the forehand from her compatriot is long , which could be a decisive factor in this match .
keys gets off to a poor start as she has all the time in the world to pick her spot on a cross-court smash , but overhits her effort . the pole makes her pay again following a good rally as she finds the line with her forehand , but keys discovers rhythm on her serve to hit back with an ace down the 't ' . radwanska attempts an audacious lob , but misses the baseline by centremetres and then slams a backhand into the net to hand the american game point . a long backhand brings up deuce , but the 20-year-old 's serve bails her out as she wins two cheap points to secure the game .
the serena serve is already looking good as her first ace of the match gives her a comfortable hold .
she only needs one , taking the lead with a deep backhand that left morita powerless .
the umpire overrules a non-call superbly , which seemed to fluster the greek , with her serving up a double fault straight after . azarenka breaks at the first time of asking in the set .
robson benefits from a fortuitous net cord once more to get to 30-0 , but erakovic draws the brit into the court before executing the passing shot . robson nets to give erakovic 30-30 , but an ace on the line brings up game point . however , the left-hander then makes successive errors and it is break point for erakovic , which she takes when robson goes wide with a forehand .
an ace gets robson off to the perfect start , and that is improved when erakovic nets . the world number 71 opts to halt play mid-point to challenge a call , which is incorrect , and it 's two game points to robson . she misses out with the first , but a serve out wide force erakovic to serve for the match .
a third successive game for makarova , who from a tough spot has responded with supreme confidence . kvitova looks a different player when that troublesome first serve starts to fail , and now must work hard to keep this second set alive .
another groundstroke slaps into the net and that 's now eight of the last nine games radwanska has won .
azarenka has dominated this contest , but vesnina is just starting to show signs that she can trouble the defending champion . but for the time being , the russian is serving to stay in the first set .
kvitova looks to be heading towards a one-set lead as she fires her second ace of the match past her opponent . however , she makes back-to-back double faults for the second game in a row to give pennetta a chance to get the break back . the italian goes for an ambitious forehand down the sideline , but hits it a fraction late , slicing it wide , before scuffing a backhand into the net on the next point . kvitova has a set point , but makes her third double fault of the game . pennetta takes her next couple of returns as early as possible to put her opponent under pressure , and it has the desired effect , with kvitova missing a backhand before watching a forehand from the italian fly past her . it 's well-played by the 26th seed , but kvitova really crumbled towards the end of that game .
stephens 's serve again goes to deuce , but this time it ends the way of the belarusian after stephens goes centimetres long with a backhand .
sharapova looks so fired up for this match , letting out a big shout of `` come on '' every time she wins a point . the second seed moves well around the court before taking a second-serve ace to bring up 40-15 , but williams fights hard to get herself back into the game , as the russian hits the ball into the net . williams sends her opponent out wide with a brilliant forehand , and sharapova makes the return , but leaves the court wide open for the world number one to bring up deuce . a wild mis-hit from sharapova gives williams a chance to break back , and she smashes the ball past the defending champion to claim her first game of the match .
kuznetsova tries to control a rally from the back of the court , but a mis-hit forehand helps williams to a 30-0 lead . a good serve helps her get back into the game , but a wide ball brings up two break points for the american . kuznetsova saves the first , forcing a wide return from her opponent with a good serve , but the top seed gets the better of the russian in a short rally , and will now serve for the opening set .
both players are really stepping up the intensity now in a series of increasingly gruelling baseline rallies . stephens shows superb defence at the baseline to force deuce four times but bartoili holds her never to come through , saving two break-point chances in the process .
robson races to a 40-0 lead before missing two first serves to allow kvitova a foothold in the game . however , a powerful serve was too much for kvitova to control , and robson held her serve .
mladenovic improves her footing slightly to produce a service winner , which is followed by a vinci error . the frenchwoman charges through to 40-0 and finishes things off by forcing vinci to fail on the backhand .
halep is really racking up the winners in this opening sets , rifling a forehand down the sideline before slicing her backhand beyond azarenka 's reach . the 20th seed gets herself into a rally as she tries to extend the game , but she overhits a forehand , allowing halep to hold serve .
sheer power from keys to get the advantage with a clean backhand winner , but aggie comes to the net to save it with a forehand . then another sublime backhand from keys , who found the angle from deep on the left to find the opposite line . she holds well with radwanska netting . good start to this match .
it 's tit-for-tat after two games . commanding service performance from robson .
sharapova 's famous grunt is getting louder with every game as she realised that she 's going to have to work for every point . at 30-30 , vandeweghe goes over to the umpire to raise an issue , and the crowd mics do n't pick it up but it would appear that she 's not happy with the amount of noise her opponent is making . at deuce , vandeweghe slices her forehand wide , giving sharapova her first break point of the match , but she ca n't return her opponent 's big serve own the middle of the court . a wayward groundstroke from the american gives the fourth seed another break point though , and she takes it with a powerful return .
kvitova is serving first again in the deciding set , and has to be careful as the italian is quickly into the net to keep the game level . the czech keep pennetta at the back of the court on the next point , forcing her to miss a backhand , before another miss from the 26th seed goes long .
jankovic will be kicking herself right now . she had plenty of opportunities to break back in that game . however , she will now serve to stay in the set .
break another break for the world number one , and to love . she is hitting the ball with accuracy and power , forcing the errors out of vesnina .
i think it makes more sense to point out what game are n't breaks ! radwanska completely dominates the errani serve and brings us level once more .
not a great start to the second set for ana as she is edged out after being taken to deuce by azarenka .
bartoli bounces back from her disappointment in the previous game to hold with relative ease . two each .
she holds to 30 to win her fourth consecutive game , but , for some reason , azarenka is angry . after hantuchova fires a game-ending forehand just long , the belarusian mops her sweaty face with a towel and then flings the moist cloth at a nearby ball boy with unnecessary force .
she does indeed dominate the kerber serve , and gets the break at just about the best time in the set . this could be a scalp here .
the strong start to the game that vinci required does n't materialise and a poor volley sees her fall 0-30 behind . she halves the deficit with a smash but pennetta has two more break points thanks to a backhand winner down the line . vinci replies with a forehand winner down the same area of the court but she ca n't save the second as vinci slices into the net . vinci needs rain from here ...
wowee ! lisicki grabs the opening set by securing a double break to love . williams looked like she 'd completely given up in that game .
lisicki throws away another double to gift kerber the set .
that 's an absolutely terrible forehand from sharapova on the pressure point , which hands the game to her opponent . we 're back level in the second .
sharapova could do with breaking straight back , but she soon finds herself 30-0 down , before a 10th ace , at 123mph , brings up three game points . another first serve is n't returned and williams holds to love .
when the points are short , serena is winning almost every point , but when vinci is given the chance to mix up the speed of the ball , williams is all over the place . she comes through with a hold to 15 but vinci may be on to something here .
break back ! unbelievable defence again from the pole before li hits wide with a backhand . the elder of the two women will be devastated there as she squandered four set points .
it 's a good start from williams in this game as she forces azarenka to hit a tame backhand into the net . however , the two-time grand slam champion digs deep to make williams hit a forehand out of play , before firing down an ace . two more first serves force williams to hit two returns out of play , and she 's now just one game away from taking the first set .
robson is now in complete control of the second set , having broken kvitova twice . her forehand is causing the czech all kinds of problems , while kvitova is also still having problems with her own serve . robson just needs to hold her nerve to serve out the set and level the match .
what a way to the start the second set for lisicki ! she moves to 0-30 with a forehand return winner before breaking to love with another rocket return .
it 's a shaky start by the top seed but she manages to hold serve . a couple of early mistakes from kuznetsova gives williams a lead , but a good forehand shot from the russian gets her back into the game . williams tests her opponent with a volley to take the game to 40-15 , and tries the same move on the next point , but this time kuznetsova is ready , and smashes it back past the american . a double fault brings up deuce , before a poor forehand gives kuznetsova a chance to break in the opening game . after several more deuces , williams eventually managed to dig deep to take the game , but she 'll need to serve better next time around .
and just when it matters robson is unable to match her opponent 's power . kanepi 's ferocious return sees her break to love and the estonian will now serve for the match . robson needs a heroic effort now to keep her tournament alive .
a love-hold for radwanska , the first of the match . lisicki made a few errors there and she needs to calm those down a little as she 's already made seven .
there was good and bad from the bulgarian in that game , but it was a comfortable enough hold in the end . can she now get a look at the radwanska serve ?
radwanska simply ca n't handle muguruza 's shots off the ground , and at 15-30 , the spaniard has the sights sets on the double break . the 2012 finalist recovers to 40-30 , but a tame second serve is given the treatment by muguruza . radwanska survives though , courtesy of mistakes from her opponent .
serena finds a couple of big serves to hold . game on at the moment though .
after the blip , the pole sees out the game and we 're still with serve , although there has been a close game each . that has to go down as a chance missed for watson .
back-to-back aces - her second and third of the match - take muguruza to 40-0 before she registers a love service hold of her own with a huge first serve that only catches the frame of radwanska 's racquet .
it seems that these two have now found their service games all of a sudden ! sharapova produces a ruthless few points to go 3-2 in front .
lisicki 's looking threatening at 15-30 but then puts three straight forehands out of play . can the german mentally recover from this slump and somehow get back in this game ?
robson 's done it ! she 's managed to hold and saved six matches doing so ! great character from the young brit . now though , she has to break or her us open campaign is over .
sharapova finds the net with her forehand at the start of her service game , but she manages to rally quickly to take the lead as she displays her power to force to miscues from her compatriot . an excellent forehand from the 27-year-old hands her two game points , but she throws one of those away due to a double fault . the number two seed claims the game as makarova goes for the line and misses .
since those two breaks-to-love to begin the match , neither woman has offered up a break point . radwanska is able to hold to 30 as li misses with three straight returns .
that 's monster hitting from doi , who moves kvitova around before driving a forehand into the corner for 30-0. doi brings up three more set points , but kvitova saves the first with a brutal baseline winner . however , at the sixth time of asking , doi seals the second set when kvitova blazes long , and we are into a decider on the arthur ashe stadium court .
azarenka breaks : another smart drop shot helps hantuchova recover from 15-40 to force deuce . however , she then surrenders her serve with back-to-back double faults .
lisicki 's return at 30-40 is short and radwanska approaches the german 's backhand and she ca n't get it over the net so we remain on serve .
it 's not a completely straight forward start for the top seed as she claims the first two points , but a couple of loose serves allow lim to level the scores at 30-30. the american responds with a couple of big serves to wrap up the game , but taking a couple of points will be a confidence boost for the young frenchwoman .
safarova is playing some inspired tennis right now and he advances to 30-0 with a backhand winner from the baseline.that 's followed with a booming forehand that wrong-foots the serbian , who then hooks a shot wide . this is slipping away from the former world number one .
great counter-attacking play sees mladenovic pull back level with a smash down the line , but fails on a wide challenge to give vinci a lead . the italian delivers a telling forehand to establish set point , which she takes when mladenovic cuts a response into the net .
errani holds ! court philippe chatrier stands and applauds as the 26-year-old stands up to her bully and holds to 30. williams certainly did not want to lose that game , but she did aide her opponent 's cause with two big unforced errors .
errani holds to 15 to win her second game of the match .
break back ! nervy start from both women it is then . lisicki mirrors bartoli in losing her serve with a double fault after an errant toss .
muguruza seeks to break back by establishing a 30-15 lead with a strong backhand winner at the net with her opponent stuck down in the corner . the spaniard then has a break point of her own when bacsinszky powers a flat shot into the mesh . muguruza seizes her chance as bacsinszky goes for the drops shot but finds the net yet again .
danger signs for watson , as keys displays her power once more with two aggressive winners from inside the baseline . the brit hits back with two unreturnable serves , but that 's quite ridiculous from keys , who hits an unbelievable forehand winner on the back foot . this game is hotting up now , as watson saves the break point with a drilled baseline winner of her own . what a fantastic hold of serve from watson , who forces keys into two mistakes and she maintains her advantage . that was huge .
this would be one hell of match if there was not net involved . 15-30 .
morita holds her opening service game .
this time it 's the american 's backhand that does the job . it was a fine return of serve and she edges in front early in this second set .
break back ! azarenka saves the first with a big serve but surrenders the second by netting a backhand approach .
robson is moving in for the kill but ca n't quite get the break as clijsters holds on .
azarenka secures her fourth break of serve to take control of the second set . it 's all going one way at the moment and vesnina is looking a bit forlorn out on rod laver .
radwanska takes an early lead with a forehand down the line , but keys responds with a powerful backhand at the feet of the pole . the 26-year-old finds her rhythm again on her serve to help her dictate the points and she eases her way past the american to take the lead in the deciding set .
serena hits two consecutive aces and holds to love . azarenka will serve for the set .
one break back ! the first is wasted as ivanovic hits long but she converts the second in style , tracking down bouchard 's surprise drop shot and then finding the line with a backhand .
a rare unreturnable serve from radwanska at 40-30 sees her hold serve and she 's now one game away from a place in the last four .
much better from sharapova on serve . li does n't get a look in as the russian takes her first game with a forehand winner . she gets another chance to attack the li serve .
a fierce forehand winner from azarenka goes right in the corner and she has the hold .
she does n't make the same mistake ... well , thrice . she gets the break at the third time of asking after hampton dumps the ball into the net .
sharapova takes the first two points , but the deficit is halved when she misses a routine forehand . williams should be level at 30-30 but she miscues a drive volley and the russian seals her second game of the contest when her opponent goes wide .
a huge hold from azarenka ! the belarusian starts with a double fault before niculescu pulls of a treat of a lob on the backhand . a shot into the net by azarenka gives two break points , but she saves the point with a superb rally of aggressive hitting . another absolutely cracking rally sees niculescu almost pull off an unbelievable drop shot winner , but azarenka reaches it to bring up deuce and she makes no mistake from there .
azarenka is just not playing at the level she was at earlier on , but she 's still fighting and manages to hold serve again . williams is letting rip at every opportunity , but in this game they fail to find their mark .
she does it the hard way but sharapova holds after saving three break points . that was an important game and the russian has come out the other side intact .
both players seem to be finding their rhythm here , but it 's robson who comes away with the game , with some brilliant serves and stunning ground strokes .
the american holds to 40 ! hantuchova sends a forehand just long , before williams 's third ace of the day wraps up game three .
the belarusian comprehensively holds her own service game to love and consolidates the break . very tough start for the american and it 's already a long way back into this one after just six minutes .
the russian jolted her ankle in that one . it looks a nasty twist ! she lost her opening service game to love , however , and there 's an ominous feel about this .
robson superbly recovers a kvitova drop shot , before finishing the game with a brilliant ace to level the set .
serena possesses the greater power of the two , but she finds herself on the defensive when the russian fires a powerful shot from the baseline . her first serve gets her out of trouble though , a 120mph ace taking her to game point , before an 111mph delivery catches the line .
brilliant stuff from the teenager as she blocks a service crosscourt before finding the far corner with a forehand winner .
williams hits another forehand winner to move 0-15 ahead , but the american then fires long for 15-15. williams then places one long of the baseline for 30-15 , but wozniacki double-faults in the next point for 30-30. williams hits a forehand long in the next point to hand wozniacki 40-30 , but the dane then follows suit for deuce . wozniacki again hits the net to hand williams set point , but the american then hits one wide for deuce two . eventually wozniacki holds when williams again hits the net .
some big serves from the american in that game , as sharapova drops a game for the first time all tournament . the russian is still well in control through .
big , big hold for lisicki . she 's already saved three break points and is having to work so hard to stay in this . so hard in fact that she 's had to remove her skin-tight long-sleeve sweater thing .
three double faults from robson allows kvitova to get one break back and keep the second set alive . robson is still a break up , so will have another chance on her own serve to seal the set if she ca n't get the break back in the next game .
the world number one finally holds serve in this set . she trails by a break .
that 's a lovely touch from errani , who dinks a drop shot from just inside the baseline that spins away from the run of the pole . she follows it up with some neat net play , although randwanska 's shot into the tramlines is a bit of a let-off for the italian , who did n't volley well . an equally comfortable hold .
break back ! would you believe it ? azarenka totally chokes and is broken again to level this set up .
venus maybe senses blood now and throws everything into a forehand . 30-15 .
williams moves 0-15 ahead when wozniacki hits a forehand long of the baseline , before whipping a forehand past wozniacki for 0-30. the 10th seed responds with a powerful serve which proves non-returnable , before williams nets for 30-30. wozniacki 's first ace then moves her 40-30 ahead , but williams ties it at deuce with a stunning backhand . wozniacki then hits one wide to hand williams advantage , but the american then fires long for deuce two . eventually williams breaks after deuce three when wozniacki hits the net .
stephens starts the set exactly as she needed to , with a decent service hold . big game now with williams serving .
the game starts with mistakes from makarova as she hits the net twice with loose forehands , but the romanian brings her right back into the game at 30-30 with two errors of her own . a good rally follows between the duo which lasts for over 15 shots before makarova goes for the line with her forehand and misses . halep gets the hold with an excellent serve down the middle , which the russian ca n't return .
li 's forehand is deadly as she comfortably holds serve , mixing it up with a volley at the end of the game . vinci 's head appears to have dropped , as li just looks untouchable .
a comfortable start to the second set for williams . kirilenko is going to have to find another level is she 's to get something out of this match .
well , when it comes to return games anyway . safarova hits her way to 40-0 and is only a matter of inches away from a love hold . she keeps her composure to control the next point and hold confidently to 15 .
this is one-way traffic at roland garros at the moment . sharapova is getting sympathetic applause from french crowd now . an easy game for jankovic makes it 5-0 .
williams moves 15-0 ahead when wozniacki fires wide , before the dane nets to hand williams 30-0. williams then hits a backhand wide to allow her opponent onto the board , before williams nets for 30-30. the american responds with a stunning serve into the body , however , before holding with a fine forehand .
watson serves well to take a 40-30 lead , but cirstea gets the better of the brit in a long rally to bring up deuce . the romanian blasted a forehand long to give watson advantage , but a string of misses from the 22-year-old gifts her opponent the game and another break . watson has held serve just one in this match so far .
at 15-40 down ivanovic picks the worst time to produce a double fault with a stray ball toss . radwanska gets the vital second break without breaking sweat and will serve for the first set .
keys forces the mistake from the 33-year-old as he fires a forehand deep into the back of the court , but serena 's response is emphatic as she works keys across the court with her power game to win three points on the spin , and two break points . keys manages to nail an ace right into the corner on the outside and levels with a fine forehand that serena ca n't return . however , the mistakes return from the young american as williams takes control of the set .
azarenka responds well to the break , quickly taking a 40-15 lead against the li serve , before a mistake by the sixth seed allows azarenka to go up a break yet again , and she will serve for the second set in the next game .
two unforced errors from the sharapova forehand level the opening game at deuce , but the third seed stays composed to win the next two points and hold to 40 .
break : sharapova converts in style . the russian works a terrific angle to force azarenka wide of the deuce court . she then sprints to the net and punishes her opponent with an unstoppable cross-court volley .
keys takes the first two points on her serve , but venus stops a rot of losing six points in a row after moving her opponent around the court . keys wo n't want too many points like that . she 's in a lot of discomfort but she finds some magic at the net to reduce the deficit to one . keys needs to be careful here , though . she does n't want to aggravate an injury that might keep her out of a semi-final anyway .
mladenovic starts things well by moving into a 30-0 lead , but a couple of mistakes give vinci a chance . maybe not , though , as the frenchwoman comes back with a punishing ace to set up two game points for the hold . she eventually takes it with a standout forehand down into the corner . a momentum change , perhaps ?
it 's an aggressive start from sharapova , but would we really expect anything else ? she has mixed joy from the back of the court but she still manages to bring up 30-30. the 2006 winner improves to create a couple of break-point opportunities in a lengthy game but it 's a fine response from kirilenko who manages to hold serve .
the crowd are on their feet , and rightly so . the pair play a glorious point , which concludes when williams whips a forehand cross-court for 30-0. that 's soon followed up with an ace , before azarenka goes long to leave williams one game away from a 17th major title .
mladenovic 's injury is starting to show a touch as she limps around between plays . a poor opening serve gives vinci the chance to go in front , but mladenovic comes back with a deep bullet into the corner . a fine service sees the youngster move the scores to 30-15 , where two more wonderful serves help to force home the hold . vinci is now just looking for a hold of her own to win this match !
radwanska is firmly in control now as watson gives up her serve to love , ending on a double fault . promising start , but the pole 's class is shining through now , watson has no answers at the moment .
williams has dropped just three points behind her first serve . that 's how good she has been today . she is still susceptible to a double fault though , with a third being conceded to hand safarova a look at 15-15. how do you respond to that ? with a 198kmph ace and a 23rd winner of the match . williams has two game points but they are both saved by the czech thanks to a return winner and williams mistake . safarova then creates her first break point of the match , which she takes thanks to a third double fault of the game from her opponent . interesting .
serena wo n't be ruffled , but she 'll be concerned at how brilliantly azarenka is playing . the 20-time grand slam champion powers down two aces to start the second set , before azarenka hits one out of play . a third ace flies past azarenka 's racket , and it 's a good start for serena .
gajdosova looked uncertain on serve in that game , bringing up a break point with a double fault , then slicing her forehand to the net . the 20th seed will now serve for the match .
again ivanovic fails to convert her chances and radwanska slips through the net to keep her two-game lead .
williams starts with another ace to move 15-0 ahead , but then fires long for 15-15. another ace allows the american to regain the lead , before wozniacki fails to return another serve in the next point . williams holds with yet another sensational serve .
knapp breaks back ! for the second time in this match , knapp responds to being broken by breaking right back ! this time , it 's sharapova who struggles at the sunny end . knapp takes the game to 15 , after her opponent gifts her a double fault and two unforced backhand errors .
it 's four games in a row for cristea ! at 15-15 , watson times a cross-court forehand superbly to edge ahead , but a powerful backhand from cirstea levels the scores before watson fires long to give her opponent a chance to break again . a big serve takes the game to deuce , but a double fault from the british number one gives cirstea another chance . watson keeps herself in the game , coming inside the baseline to fire onto to sideline before hitting another ace to give herself advantage . cirstea takes it back to deuce before sending two superb forehands to the back corner to clinch the game .
kerber looks comfortable on serve and she sends down an ace to complete a hold to-love .
sharapova will have to earn this set win . mattek-sands produces her best service game of the match so far to put the balls back in sharapova 's court . all she needs to do now is hold , but that has n't been easy in her last three service games .
a solid opening service game from robson . she had to rely on her second serve a couple of times , but her play during rallies was excellent . now she needs to attack the kvitova serve .
inconsistency is blighting stephens game as back on serve she quickly falls 0-40 behind . a fourth unforced error quickly follows and bartoli has her third break in a row , easing ahead by a set and a break in a topsy-turvy quarter-final .
things are not going sharapova 's way at the moment . everything is just off for her , but fractions . she pulls a point back to make it 30-15 but jankovic replied by earning a break point . the champion comes short to the net and plays a tricky drop shot , which forces jankovic to hit her reply out . sharapova finishes the game with a double fault . shocking stuff .
well , she almost threw it away , but makarova does indeed take a topsy-turvy opener . how will the german respond ? she 'd love an early break .
just as she looked to be control of the set , azarenka sends down a couple of long balls , bringing up two break points for li na . a brilliantly-timed cross-court forehand clinches the game for the chinese player .
williams still looks like she 's yet to settle on serve , firing a couple of long balls towards her opponent before smashing her serve into the net . kuznetsova slides along the baseline as she tries to bring up another break point , but her cross-court forehand goes just long , and williams is able to take the game with a big serve down the baseline .
williams takes the opening point as safarova hits long , but the czech moves level with a backhand winner down the line . a big first serve and cross-court winner take serena to two game points before she seals it with an ace . that was quite a statement .
the players ' service games are holding strong at the moment and muguruza takes a 30-15 lead by forcing her opponent onto the back foot . the number 20 seed ca n't keep up the pressure , however , and bacsinszky draws the scores level . muguruza then double faults to setup the break point , but pushes back for deuce . the 21-year-old saves the break point and takes the game by forcing two consecutive errors .
muguruza lost five games in a row to lose that second set , something which ca n't continue if she wants to stay in this match . she saves a break point with an ace , but when she faces a second , she fires a forehand long of the baseline . this is radwanska 's to lose now .
awful start to the second set for hantuchova , as williams breaks ! two backhand errors and a double fault move serena 15-40 in front . she then maintains her 100 % conversation rate ( 2/2 ) when hantuchova cracks a fizzing backhand off target .
azarenka miscues again on the first point , but she wrong-foots williams to get back on level terms . the belorussian moves to game point , but williams cracks a forehand onto the line to stay competitive . it 's not enough though , as she nets tamely on the next point .
the crowd produce the loudest cheer of the match so far as lisicki holds with a big forehand drive volley . pressure right on kerber to hold now .
wozniacki holds . kuznetsova calls for the trainer . she removes her trainer to reveal her heavily-strapped left foot .
it 's a positive start from radwanska , who converts a forehand winner into the corner to earn 30-15 , but a poor drop shot allows muguruza to step in to put away a winner of her own . the radwanska second serve looks a shot to be targeted , and muguruza gets to deuce after a fierce return sets up a dominant point . the spaniard sets up a break point but she ca n't convert after netting a forehand . however , a second chance arises and she takes it , firing a forehand into the corner . this is her first appearance on centre court but she has settled immediately .
the first half of the game is littered with errors , and williams has 30-30. azarenka looks nervous , and another mistake gifts her opponent break point . that could be that i think . azarenka 's forehand hits the top of the tape and williams will serve for the champion for the third time . can she do it ?
much better from cibulkova , who drives a forehand towards the baseline for a 30-0 lead but serena is middling every second serve that comes her way and she halves the deficit . the 11th seed does n't wilt though and she holds to 30 to force serena to serve for the set .
azarenka finds some powerful serves , forcing a run of three straight long returns from her opponent , but she misses her first serve while trying to clinch the game , allowing halep to dictate the point from the back of the court and keep herself in the game , taking it to deuce on the next point when the 20th seed turns her forehand wide . azarenka lets out a huge shout of `` come on '' as halep fires long to give the belarusian advantage , which she converts with another excellent serve . it looks like azarenka is still trying to get herself pumped up for this match , but she 's just about keeping herself in contention in the first set .
finally a comfortable service hold ! the first so far that has n't been contested to deuce , and zakopalova levels the set at two apiece .
clijsters stops the rot and now robson must hold to stay in the set .
safarova needs a sharp start to this second set and she is halfway to an early lead at 30-0. however , serena halves the deficit with another return winner before safarova makes a backhand error to take the score to 30-30. the world number earns a break point but she misses out after netting a backhand . safarova moves to game point with her first ace of the contest but williams remains alive with an effortless swing on a first-serve return . safarova saves a second break point but she is helpless on the third as williams displays remarkable retrieving skills before crushing a backhand winner into the corner .
muguruza starts strongly off her own service as she forces bacsinszky into two consecutive errors to move the score to 30-0. the towering spaniard takes the next point as her opponent can only scrape a backhand return into the net . bacsinszky hits back with a commanding forehand winner before delivering a superb backhand to draw deuce . bacsinszky does n't do herself any favours next up , though , as she produces poor work on the backhand to give muguruza the advantage . deuce is reached again when the swiss players comes up with a strong effort on the backhand , but then throws the game away with two straight errors .
a big forehand to the corner ca n't be returned by ivanovic and that 's the first game to the canadian . an encouraging hold .
robson needs to find some inspiration on erakovic 's serve , and she fires a return past the forehand of the new zealander to earn 15-15. now then , a stunning cross-court winner takes her to 15-30 , before she takes advantage of a slip from her opponent to earn two break points . that 's hugely impressive from erakovic though , who saves both with an ace and a driven forehand winner . another ace then takes her to game point , which she swiftly seals when robson sends a return long .
jankovic takes the opener in the second set , with a good shot at the feet of ivanovic , who had advanced to the net .
doi needs a fast start to this set , but she is immediately on the back foot after a huge forehand down the line from kvitova . she fights back to 30-15 , but two errors hand kvitova a break point . the japanese player shows tremendous heart , though , to take the the next three points to take an early lead in the second .
garcia seems to have lost a little of the intensity from her serve , and williams pounces with some impressive returns to bring up three break points . a return to the back corner of the court catches garcia out , leaving her stretching for the ball . she manages to get her racquet to the ball , but can only hit the ball into the net .
there have reportedly been a few concerns regarding williams 's fitness in the build-up to this match but she looks comfortable enough in hitting her way to a love hold . it should suit her serving first because if she can remain ahead , the pressure will always fall on bacsinszky 's shoulders .
it 's another double fault from sharapova and it 's another break for azarenka . the momentum has shifted dramatically in this one .
well there is no doubt as to who benefited from that extended break in play due to rain . at the third time of asking kvitova takes the first set , just edging a pair of lengthy baseline exchanges to leave the russian seething .
at the change of ends , williams is covering her neck in ice . she does n't look well at all . she takes the opening point of the sixth game but bacsinszky comes roaring back with a forehand winner down the line on the way to two game points . she only requires one after catching the line with another aggressive baseline shot and she looks in the groove here .
pennetta looks in a rhythm now and she breezes to a hold to 15. halep looks slightly disinterested towards the end of that game . the frustration of losing her serve obviously still bothering her .
she has a typically american style does keys . some big serves and big forehands help her to a very comfortable opening serve . she certainly does n't look like an 18-year-old out there .
too good from williams . another second serve is picked off , this time with the backhand . muguruza needs to keep her first serve percentage high . a venture into the net ends with muguruza hitting wide to give williams a chance . how do you respond ? an ace , of course . a couple of fly-overs in the past few minutes have distracted the players . if you did n't know , it 's australia day , so we could have fireworks causing problems later on . a couple of errors from williams allow muguruza to move 40-30 up , and an excellent forehand winner makes it 2-2 .
after battling back to advantage , zakopalova gets a huge slice of luck as her return hits the net and just goes over . early break for her , though . great start .
niculescu holds , although azarenka is looking the stronger of the two . in saying that , the romanian did show lovely touch with a forehand volley . an ace down the t wrapped up the game .
hmmm , maybe everyone - myself included - were getting ahead of themselves . keys opens with a double fault , and she 's visibly nervous . she takes the next point but her game unravels over the next three points to allow venus to edge a break in front in this second set .
it 's a poor start to the third set by li . she tries to smash a backhand cross-court , but puts far to much power behind the ball , and it goes long to give azarenka two break points , which she easily takes with a brilliant forehand .
li dominates from the back of the court , but some superb backhands from vinci help her get back into the game and bring up deuce . the sixth seed makes her first double fault of the match to give the italian a chance to break back , but li manages to save the break , before finding some big serves to escape from the game with her serve in tact .
garcia drops the opening two points of the game as williams continues her strong returning form from the first set . however , garcia ups the pace on her serve to get herself back into the game . the world number one forces a mistake from garcia to give herself a chance to get a break on the board , but a long return brings up deuce . garcia saves another break point before adding some variety to her serve to force a couple of mistakes on the return from williams , allowing her to hold serve .
cornet is furious with herself after throwing away a 40-0 lead to let williams hold her serve . the american had all sorts of problems with her serve , handing cornet three break points following a double fault . however , a string a mistakes from the french player let williams off . cornet will be needing a new racquet , after smashing her previous one against the court .
a loose start from watson , who concedes a double fault on the opening point , and a majestic backhand winner from keys gets her to 0-30. watson responds with an ace down the middle , but the american lets go with another backhand winner . is she really 18 ? crazy . she 's absolutely battering watson from the baseline , and she breaks back .
break back ! vandeweghe complains to the umpire again , seemingly unhappy with the way sharapova is moving around behind the baseline while she 's mid ball toss . however , it 's sharapova on serve now , and she 's taken a bit of the pace off to try to cut down the errors which plagued her first two service game , but that only allows vandeweghe to attack on the return , racing to a 40-0 lead , and she immediately gets the break back by coming inside the baseline to jab a forehand winner past the former champion . what an excellent response from the unseeded 23-year-old .
it is going to be interesting how keys responds to watson 's improvement because she is n't the same player who comfortably won the first set . she does show plenty of class to ease through this service game , however , and she reduces the deficit to one .
play is suspended ! more pure hitting from kvitova gets a service game finished just before the covers come on . you could see that the groundstaff were desperate to be unleashed on court one and get their wish , with play suspended until further notice .
all too easy in that game for the fourth seed as she holds to love with minimal fuss . radwanska is now one game away from a place in the quarter-finals .
azarenka wins the game with an emphatic smash after a deep forehand right into the corner .
williams holds . her serves were well under the 100mph mark there , but her overall play was more than good enough . stephens should be doing more , in my opinion .
a spirited display from ivanovic to grind out that hold under pressure and stay alive in the match . she still trails by a set and a break and needs to dig deep and take a chance on radwanska 's serve .
a weak second serve from keys gives venus the chance of 0-30 but she puts too much on her return . keys 's serve has dropped off in this game and venus knows it but despite getting to deuce , the youngster comes through with a fine hold to stay on level terms .
great use of the full court again from muguruza as she finds the corner with a forehand , before seeing williams go wide with a wild ground stroke . the second serve just has n't been good enough , and muguruza cashes in to set up three break points by unleashing another winner with the forehand . williams saves one with an ace , but she hits the net moments later as muguruza immediately breaks back . superb work from the 24th seed .
azarenka holds to 30 and is now within a game of taking us into a third set . all those ivanovic shots that found the lines and corners in the first just are n't coming off now .
big hold for knapp , who twice saves break point at 40-adv before holding serve with a cute volley at the net - her first point won at the net today .
vinci produces some telling attacking play by firing into the feet of mladenovic in order to draw level at 30-30. the italian 's next return is high and long , leaving the youngster with the chance to see out the game . vinci comes straight back , however , to bring about deuce before a poor approach gives mladenovic room to move ahead . vinci is not done yet , though , as she throws a return deep to draw parity once more . the players battle continuously at deuce , where vinci finally breaks free to earn an important lead after a mammoth 12-minute game .
savvy from vinci who drops over the net to catch her opponent short . mladenovic fails with two more errors ( there have been plenty ) and another forced forehand mistake ensures that vinci takes the game with ease .
double break ! at the fifth time of asking radwanska earns the double break as li hits wide with a forehand . she challenges the call but it was an inch out and is that game , set and match ?
a quick hold to love for azarenka . just what she needed .
serena now has the task of serving to stay in the set and she gets off to a good start with an ace . azarenka gets lucky off the net-cord to reach 15-15 , before williams serves a double fault ! some more excellent tennis from azarenka sees her earn two set points with a winner down the line , but williams saves the first and lets an almighty roar . azarenka then sends a backhand out of play to take it to deuce , and serena whacks a backhand into the corner to move ahead . azarenka nets a forehand next time around , and williams holds on . just .
williams holds to 15 .
a big forehand followed by an ace put azarenka firmly in control . she knocks a forehand long before taking the game when vesnina hits a backhand wide . one-way traffic at the moment .
from 0-30 down radwanska battles back well to hit a firehand winner and force an error to level the game . she then comes to the net for 40-30 and wins a very important service game with a fantastic backhand down the line - she did n't swing at it but it did n't half fly .
kvitova led her emotions get the better of her , arguing with the umpire over a line call . however , she re-discovered her composure and managed to hold on , putting the pressure back on robson 's serve .
the mistakes start to flow from the 19-year-old as she miscues her first backhand of the game , while her forehand then smacks into the net . williams ups the ante with her third ace of the game before keys makes another mistake to hand the hold to serena , who wins her third game in a row .
sharapova responds in kind , holding to 30 .
another ace down the middle takes williams to 30-0 , before a crunching forehand winner eases her to three game points . a love hold is sealed when a first-serve return is sent into the net by sharapova .
the belarusian strikes straight back . she received the gift right back , still in it 's wrapping paper .
this holding of the serve malarkey is beginning to catch on ! radwanska levels the set up at five apiece with a string of winners .
this match is beginning to become littered with mistakes , and this time , it 's in watson 's favour , as a keys double fault contributes to falling 0-30 behind . a watson winner then brings up three more break points , and a perfectly-struck drop shot earns watson another break . that 's four breaks of serve in a row .
she needs just the one ! a backhand return down the line and radwanska does n't even move for it . incredible few games from li .
it 's an important hold for li , who powers a forehand to force the ball long from zakopalova . li means business in this set after the surprise of losing the first .
set azarenka : well , well , well . this did not appear to be on the cards 40 minutes ago . azarenka breaks to 30 and levels the match at one set all . 3.28pm rain ! it 's raining properly now and the players are leaving court . the delay should last no longer than 15 minutes , as the storm looks like it is only passing by . 3.29pm the covers are on . 3.31pm this pause in play will certainly benefit sharapova , who was beginning to lose her composure , especially after her disagreement with the umpire . the momentum was strongly with azarenka , but i think that may soon change once play restarts . 3.34pm play has also been interrupted on court suzanne lenglen , where bob and mike bryan have taken the first set 6-1 against alexander peya and bruno soares in the day 's second men 's doubles semi-final . 3.35pm the american duo are on course to face michael llodra and nicolas mahut in the final , after the french pair beat pablo cuevas and horacio zeballos 7-6 6-2 earlier this afternoon . 3.38pm the covers are being removed on court philippe chatrier , where play between sharapova and azarenka should resume imminently . 3.43pm the fans have returned to court , the lines people and umpire have also returned . we are just waiting for the players to emerge now . 3.47pm i think that this match will depend entirely on sharapova . if she is able to implement her attacking game , she will win . if not , azarenka will progress , as the belarusian possesses the stronger defensive skills . 3.55pm the warm-up is over and play will now resume . azarenka will serve to get the deciding set underway .
serena is all over a couple of serves , hitting through the ball to leave cibulkova floundering on the baseline . the 2014 runner-up responds with a forehand winner of her own but it 's two break points to serena when cibulkova goes long . the top seed is having plenty of joy on the return and she edges in front with another well-struck forehand .
kuznetsova eventually prevails .
williams continues to dominate as set two gets underway , holding to 30 .
two break points for kerber .
serena hits a huge unforced forehand error to fall 15-30 behind . she then has a stern word with herself before stringing together three consecutive points to hold to 30 .
wozniacki puts her return into the net and kuznetsova consolidates the break of serve . the early signs are pointing towards a good match .
and a minute after spurning that chance the dane 's game begins to unravel , with efficient but unspectacular returns from cetkovska enough to earn three break points . at 0-40 she shows no mercy , smashing a forehand down the line to move within one game of a morale-boosting win , with the czech about to serve for the match .
an incredibly close game is just edged by serena . a fantastic backhand return sets up break point and the game is won with stephens firing into the net after an impossible return from williams . that could be the deciding break .
kerber 's dragged it back to 30-30 .
after the opening two points are shared , safarova unloads from the baseline to move ahead before the american struggles to handle a first serve to concede two game points . williams responds with a huge return but she nets on the next attempt and out of nowhere , she is serving to remain in this second set .
bacsinszky looks almost beaten and two weak shots from the baseline hand williams a 15-30 advantage . the world number one crushes a backhand winner down the line for two break points before she repeats the trick off the opposite wing to move within touching distance of a showdown with lucie safarova .
wozniacki comfortably wins her service game with some well-placed backhands , while robson fails to find her length .
radwanska takes control and earns a hard-fought hold to maintain her early advantage in the first set . chance missed there for ivanovic , who has to take those openings to have a realistic chance of winning this match .
li comes into the net , but vinci finds a stunning backhand from a tight angle before a poor shot to the net from the sixth seed gives vinci a 30-0 lead . another forehand strikes the net , giving the italian two break points . li punches hard from the back of the court to save the first , before a big serve helps her to deuce . vinci gets advantage , and converts it when li slices her volley into the net .
daniilidou is coming into the rallies more now , although azarenka will overpower most in the wta . the greek tries to mix it up but an attempted drop shot ends with a simple winner for the belarusian . she 's a set up after 24 minutes with a powerful backhand down the line .
a couple more aces help serena to another simple hold . she can do no wrong at the moment .
another game , another battle . that 's the fourth break in a row and once again we 're back on serve . or is that back on break ?
when sharapova misses her first serve , she is there for the taking and williams soon moves 0-30 ahead . she gets back on level terms but a tame first serve is drilled straight back at her by williams , who senses the double break . not for long though , sharapova finds an ace out wide . serena gets another opportunity before sharapova reels off three points in a row . that will hopefully settle a few nerves .
good service game from li , who is looking comfortable with the ball now . it 's finely poised this one and the set could still go either way .
a superb effort from stephens and this match is firmly back in the balance . the american took advantage of a pair of double faults from bartoli , finishing a long baseline exchange at break point by slamming a forehand into the corner . stephens looks fired up and ready for a fight tonight on court one , much to the obvious pleasure of a crowd rooting for the 20-year-old .
perfect start from kvitova as bouchard fails to return another serve for 15-0 , but the czech then double-faults to allow bouchard onto the board . bouchard then wins a difficult battle at the baseline to move 15-30 ahead , before sweeping a forehand down the line to set up two break points . kvitova hits the net in the next point as bouchard breaks .
excellent tennis from stephens . she runs williams around the court , right to left , before blocking a strong forehand with a neat volley to win the point . she serves an unreturnable one to lead 3-2 in the set .
li with an extremely fortunate hold of serve that included three dead net cords . radwanska also had one chance to earn the break straight back but could n't take it .
that 's four points in a row for ivanovic as she comes form 0-30 behind to hold serve and move within a couple of games of the first set on arthur ashe .
some frankly awful serving from kvitova gives robson another break . the brit struggled a little with her accuracy , missing a couple of forehands , but she takes the game regardless . robson will now serve for the match again .
robson needs to respond here , and she starts well with an ace down the middle . she looks in charge of the next point , but erakovic finds the line with a backhand . the brit looks nervous and she makes the error for 30-30 , but a fine topspin forehand proves to be a winner and she has game point . can she take it ? the answer is yes , with erakovic going wide from the back of the court . just one game away ...
li looks aggressive from the start , making a brilliant cross-court forehand to bring up break point . vinci tries to bring up deuce with a drop shot , but the sixth seed is able to get to the net in time and seal the game .
muguruza proves that she can be powerful too with a big first serve straight at williams . some good movement around the court gets the spaniard into a position to take the next point . williams is looking to dominate rallies , but she 's off target with a forehand which drifts long . a weak second serve allows williams to step forward to unleash a stunning forehand winner . it ca n't stop muguruza from holding though .
some solid serving helps li to a 40-30 lead , and with azarenka out wide she has the chance to hit the ball in to an open court , but she puts too much behind the volley to bring up deuce . a long stroke from li bring up break point for the defending champion , and she takes it by sending a strong return off the li serve back to the sixth seed , which she ca n't get back over the net .
a couple of wayward shots from muguruza gives her opponent a chance at 15-30 , but the spaniard is fortunate to catch the back of the baseline with a backhand to level the game . a first serve is sent out by radwanska t give her game point , before the 20th seed finds the line with an ace out wide .
neither player looks like wilting under the pressure , and that looks to be the case here . azarenka eases into a 40-15 lead , before williams hits back with some aggressive play . a double fault hands williams deuce , and after saving a break point , azarenka commits another service error to hand the american the initiative .
saving break points in her previous service game seems to have given garcia a boost as she looks super composed during a comfortable hold . she seems to be putting much more variation into her serves now , which is causing williams difficulty when making her returns .
it 's nine points in a row for li before she nets , but a routine service game for her moves her to within a game of the semi-finals .
sharapova 's dominance continues in the early stages as she wins the first point of the game , but bouchard battles back with two quality serves before she finds a forehand winner to bring up game point . the 20-year-old finally gets going as she works sharapova across the court before drilling a forehand across court to secure the game . better from the canadian as she looks to kick into gear .
break back ! two imposing down-the-line backhands from radwanska , the second a clean winner off the return , see her level up the second set .
williams moves 15-0 ahead when wozniacki hits a forehand long , before another ace moves the american 30-0 ahead . williams comes to the net in the next point , but can only hit the net to allow wozniacki onto the board . williams then hit one long for 30-30 , before netting once again to hand wozniacki break point . the dane takes it when williams finds the side-court with a forehand .
williams breaks to 15 ! hantuchova 's lapse is punished as the american makes it 3/3 on break points .
we have a hold ! radwanska improves greatly towards the end of that game , even putting away a confident drop volley at the net to seal the game .
the sixth seed is given another chance to break and this time she takes it with a beautiful forehand up the line . she 'll now serve for the opener .
a tame return from muguruza allows radwanska to get to 30-15 before two set points are created with a smash . the first is saved with a forehand passing shot , but the second is taken by the pole , who is happy to see the 20th seed go wide . what a turnaround !
williams breaks to love . this is painful to watch . right now , i ca n't even see errani getting a single game on the board .
better from halep , who is connecting with the ball with much more authority . she moves 0-30 up , which progresses to three break points after pennetta misses a volley at the net . the break is sealed when halep gets her opponent on the run , who ends up driving a backhand several yards over the baseline .
two doubles in a row ! a game that started with such promise ends in the worst possible fashion for li as she slumps to a lost service game . we 're back level .
all the momentum is with the world number one now . she claims the opening couple of points with some powerful serves , before kuznetsova tries to get the better of her with a volley , but the russian mistakenly leaves the ball , thinking that it is going long . another big serve following by a shot from the net seals the game for williams , and she needs just one more to make the last four .
holds do n't come much simpler than that for radwanska as she takes the game with a love service . her serve is accurate and puts the american under immediate pressure , which fires her into a 30-lead . keys goes for depth on her last two returns to get into the game , she goes long on both shots to hand the game to radwanska .
lovely volley to hold from radwanska . keys went for the big pass but radwanska got racquet on it to softly put it back out of reach of the american .
some excellent serves and a stunning volley help robson to a fairly straight-forward hold . her coach looks exhausted , but the brit still looks fairly fresh .
yes ! she 's done it . that is stunning from robson . she 's faced seven match points in the last two games but she is still alive and kicking .
a backhand return from williams takes her to 15-15 , before a devastating forehand winner heaps the pressure on sharapova at 15-30. serena has two chances for the double break after a huge return , but both are saved by sharapova who finally finds some length behind her first serve . the russian could have wilted here , but she gets through the game and seems rejuvenated .
my , my ! what a response from bartoli . she outpowers sharapova , who could only manage to get to 30. game well and truly on .
well that was pretty easy for world number one azarenka . stosur is playing too many shots down the middle of the court at the moment .
this is vintage clijsters at the moment as she holds to-love .
she only needs one of them , as kvitova goes wide and long with a forehand . we 're back with serve when a few minutes ago it looked all but over .
the russian breaks to love and breathes new life into this set . it 's hard to say if wozniacki choked a bit there . it was more down to kuznetsova 's hitting , although the dane did take a bit of mustard off her serve .
positive start from bouchard as kvitova nets for 15-0 , but the canadian then fires wide for 15-15. bouchard moves 30-15 ahead in the next point as kvitova nets , before the czech fires wide to hand bouchard a 40-15 lead . kvitova responds in the next point for 30-40 , before producing a stunning backhand for deuce - brilliant , brilliant tennis from the 2011 champion . another brilliant forehand moves kvitova onto advantage and she secures another break when bouchard fires wide .
lisicki holds thanks to some gutsy play . at deuce she goes for that iffy drop shot and radwanska gets there but ca n't quite reach lisicki 's loopy backhand pass before the german holds firm on the next .
sharapova quickly levels to put the pressure back on mattek-sands . has the momentum shifted at a good time for the russian ?
no jitters whatsoever from the teenager as she holds to love to take the opener in just over half an hour .
comfortable hold to 15 for williams to begin the decider . lisicki now has to hold serve to steady herself . new balls in hand for the german .
that was a really good hold from the defending champ . she barely gave robson a sniff in that one .
lisicki 's return slaps into the tape at 40-15 and that 's a decent hold for aggie to begin the contest .
brilliant point . kerber took control and came to the net . venus could n't pass her and the german has the chance to break back .
a 118mph serve has stephens bunting the ball back into williams 's court , and the third seed rushes to the net and dispatches a forehand winner . serena 's playing at half capacity , if that ...
azarenka finally seems to have settled in to this match , forcing mistakes from her opponent to bring up three break points . li finds a cross-court backhand that just hits the sideline to save the first , but she hits the net on the next point , and azarenka is right back in this first set .
this is getting silly now ! i ca n't recall the last time one of these two held their own serve . radwanska now leads 4-3 with a serve to come . so expect it to be four each shortly !
knapp breaks back ! perhaps sharapova is not quite in total control ! she wins a brilliant point with a stunning forehand winner to level the game at 30-30 , but then wastes her good work with back-to-back unforced errors to hand knapp parity in set two . knapp deserves much credit for staying in the game 's final point , which lasted 12 strokes .
seriously , what is happening in this match . safarova eases to a love hold and williams seems on the brink of capitulation .
azarenka looks to be finding her form again , but some great attacking returns from li allow her to take the game to deuce . the belarusian 's third double fault of the match gives li a break point , but a high lob from the chinese player on the next point goes just long . azarenka forces advantage before a brilliant shot down the sideline seals the game for her . it 's been two very tight games at the start of the this second set .
much improved from robson as she gets her second game on the board . can she mount a comeback in this opener ?
write off serena at your peril . she got a huge piece of help from a stephens double fault and then forces the youngster into going long to take the break . stephens lost that then and serena has called the trainer .
that 's better from the american . she does what she did in the first set by holding to love with her first service game .
much better from williams . she reads the serve perfectly throughout the game , and the american suddenly has three break points thanks to an unstoppable return with the forehand . muguruza hits back with a forehand winner of her own , and a wayward stroke from williams makes it 30-40. ace ! what a time to deliver one of those . not only does muguruza save three break points , but she wins the next two points to take the opener . are we heading for another shock ?
lisicki is on fire , cranking up the pace behind her serve , resulting in some sloppy returns from kanepi , before an ace from the german helps her clinch the game , leaving her just one game from the semi-finals .
venus misfires once more and it 's 0-30 .
comfortable hold from the czech . nothing is giving just yet from either player , but it will have to sooner or later . who has more nerve ?
a good service game from cornet , her forehand catches williams out on a couple of occasions , and her accuracy seems much better than in the previous game .
the number one seed breaks at last as lisicki hits long on the first . that was her fifth break point of the match and the first she 's converted .
still no game in this set for the greek and azarenka will now serve to wrap up the match .
arthur ashe stadium erupts as an ace brings up the hold for serena . it 's been far from a vintage performance from the american , in fact it 's been well below par at times , but she 's back in this one now .
too strong for li , who takes the set in 25 minutes . we 're into a decider in this intriguing clash .
a close game but the pressure gets to cornet and she misses her forehand , giving williams the break . she 'll now serve for a third-round match against maria sharapova .
from a fairly comfortable position at 40-15 , stephens is pegged back and azarenka takes the break at the first time of asking .
williams goes on the attack as she looks to avoid serving for the match , but the russian shows some fight , coming back from 30-15 down to take the game . williams will now serve for the match .
heavy hitting from both players in a series of bruising exchanges , but makarvoa consolidates her break with a fourth ace down the line . a strong recovery from the russian has levelled this second set , with the pressure back on kvitova to respond in her next service game .
robson gets back on serve and is well in the ascendancy now ! stephens looks a bit shell shocked , while the brit is covering the ground well and putting plenty of venom into her strokes .
a quite incredible passage of play continues on court one as stephens forces the fourth break of serve in as many games . bartoli just could not live with her young adversary at the baseline in that game , getting caught each time she was forced to be conservative behind a second serve .
great point ! venus was dragging kerber all over the place there but hits a volley into the net . set point .
kirilenko opens with a couple of errors but she comes out on top in a gruelling exchange by sending a backhand volley into the open court . sharapova starts to lose her range from the back of the court and kirilenko holds to 30. impressive from the former top-10 player .
williams breaks ! she makes no mistake , converting at the first time of asking as hantuchova slaps a backhand into the net . serena is 1/1 on break points . her opponent is 0/2 .
a simply gorgeous lob by azarenka . hampton 's approach shot let a little to be desired , but the belarusian 's lob landed flush on the line . she 'll serve for the set now .
azarenka wins the first point in style . after taking command of the rally with a deep return on second serve , the belarusian produces a sublime drop shot to draw her opponent to the net . she then finishes the point with a powerful cross-court volley .
that 's superb from barty , who steps in to record a return winner , but williams is unfazed , and she puts away a smash to take a 30-15 lead . she brings up two game points with a big first serve , and a fine one-two is completed with a forehand winner down the line .
kuznetsova shows some impressive reaction to produce a brilliant drop shot off the back of a powerful forehand from williams . a careless forehand from the american gives kuznetsova a chance to break , and she does when the top seed smashes her forehand long .
she wraps up the game with her third winner on the trot . huge pressure now on bartoli to hold her nerve and serve it out . can she do it ?
lisicki 's return on the next looks like it might creep over but it just dies at the net and radwanska is able to stop the rot , she 'd lost the previous three games .
lisicki with a much more confident hold there . she wraps it up with the first ace of the match . her powerful serve is starting to heat up .
an extremely comfortable hold for radwanska , who is now a game away from the wimbledon quarters .
clijsters is just about hanging on here as she holds because of robson dumping a pair of forehands into the net .
the 12th seed does hold on the next point though , kneeling low to push a forehand up the line that bouchard can then only drag wide with her backhand .
muguruza should be 0-15 ahead but wastes a routine return off a second serve , before only finding the net with a forehand from inside the court . sloppy . a sublime defensive lob takes radwanska to three game points , but muguruza stays alive with a forehand winner . that 's followed by a backhand winner and a radwanska error and all of a sudden , we are at deuce . the pole survives though , despite being taken to a second deuce , but muguruza will serve for a place in the final .
another ace down the middle takes williams to 15-0 before a big first serve sees the spaniard go long with a return . a second ace of the game - the ninth of the match - earns three game points , and the first is taken when a forehand is miscued by the 21st seed . this match could be over very , very soon .
an ace registering 113mph and a backhand winner from inside the court take williams to within two points of the set before another ace takes her one away . sharapova remains in the game with a forehand winner , a one-sided opener is completed with a one-two off williams 's serve .
whether it 's nerves or the volume of power shots that are coming back at her , muguruza is wilting now . the american registers four points in a row to secure what could be the decisive break .
the first point of game five goes to knapp , who draws an error from sharapova 's forehand . however , the rest of the game is plain sailing for maria , who holds to 15 .
the two players share the opening four points , but it 's kvitova who strikes first in the match to quickly move a break up .
williams holds to 15 .
it 's starting to come together for the chinese now . another really good point sees her work cibulkova across the court before finishing with an easy net winner . she needs just one more game and her opponent can not stay with her in this set .
confident stuff on serve from robson has the court one crowd roaring in approval . kanepi clearly moved inside to put pressure on her opponent 's serve in that game but to no avail , with the brit responding strongly to claim a comfortable hold . kanepi must now serve to keep the second set alive .
azarenka regains some confidence with an unstoppable forehand winner to get to 15-15 , but an attack of the second serve is wayward from the belarusian moments later . it is the right tactic , though , and she capitalises on another weak serve before halep goes long with a backhand . azarenka should punish another second serve after taking control of the rally , but an unforced error from the back of the court leaves her frustrated . a superb forehand return winner gets azarenka back to deuce , and a double fault brings up break point . brilliant ! azarenka controls the point with some excellent ground strokes and delivers a fine drive volley before halep drifts wide with the running backhand .
serena 's her usual self when she has the ball on her racquet but she looks so lethargic . she does n't have to do any running to open up a 40-0 lead but she allows bacsinszky to remain in the game as soon as the rally is extended past a few shots . another bacsinszky winner takes her back to 40-30 but serena gets the hold when her opponent sends a second-serve return wide .
venus ca n't buy a first serve at the moment . however , a booming forehand saves one break point .
a good response to losing that first set from the romanian . she wins her opening service game after forcing azarenka wide with her return .
vinci 's serve has n't got a lot of pop on it but she does n't half direct it into the right places . three first serves in a row all force errors out of pennetta , and she edges back in front .
a fourth return winner from lisicki saves the first game point but radwanska converts on the second , taking charge of the point before easing a forehand into the open court .
williams looks a little vulnerable here after being overpowered by the 25-year-old but after falling 0-30 behind , the american finds two huge first serves . however , bacsinszky is playing some unbelievable tennis , and after hitting a first-serve return winner to save a game point , she takes the next two points with a lob and a cross-court backhand to seal the first break of the match . we could have a game on here .
another ace from kvitova moves the czech 15-0 ahead and that quickly becomes 30-0 following a powerful smash from the middle of the court . a forehand pass then makes the score 40-0 , before kvitova secures the hold with another powerful serve . brilliant tennis and bouchard is just struggling at the moment .
kerber dumps it into the net and it 's break point for venus .
the american looks some talent , consolidating her defensive play with some aggressive hitting , and a fine forehand down the line brings up 0-30. watson then nets to hand keys three break points , and she takes full advantage with a backhand winner .
after the opening two points are shared , safarova gets a look at a second serve but ivanovic responds sharply to get to 30-15. the serbian follows that by drilling a forehand winner into the corner before another solid is sealed with a big first serve .
keys displays her power to generate a 0-30 advantage but venus really comes out swinging on the next to overpower her opponent . however , keys is n't discouraged , and the 19-year-old hammers a return into the corner for two break points . venus looks in control of the next rally but keys steps in to put away a smash to break through .
a wonderful forehand clobber brings muguruza level at 15-15 , before the scores move to 30-30 following errors from both players . muguruza goes 40-30 ahead with a standout winner on the forehand , before taking the game by forcing bacsinszky to send her reply into the net on the backhand .
mladenovic is not doing too much to threaten this service game as a couple of errors put vinci into a comfortable 30-0 advantage . an ace sets up the game , which is finished off with a stunning whip back across the court .
an early ace is again followed by some erratic serving , including a double-fault from robson . a backhand drops just wide to give wozniacki break-point and another double-fault sees the dane go two ahead .
as i say that , she responds with a fantastic piece of net play , first pulling azarenka in with the drop shot before hitting the volley to the other side .
what a recovery from jankovic . sharapova powered her way into a 30-0 lead before the serb stormed back to pick up the first break . she is doing really well at using sharapova 's power to her advantage early on here .
serena opens with an ace but cibulkova , who has shown no let up in her work-rate , is encouraged at 15-30. she has a good play in the next rally but serena is extremely fortunate when the ball hits the tape and drops over . it could be one of those days for cibulkova . serena holds to 30 with a second-serve that is n't returned .
keys shines early on in the fourth with a splendid ace that flies beyond her opponent at 103mph . a brutal smash then sets up a reply from radwanska that flies wide down the line . the score moves to 40-0 as the american sees the ball loop over her head and out . radwanska claims a point back with a deft chip down the line , but keys finally takes the game after her opponent fails on the backhand .
there it is ! at the first time of asking in the game , zakopalova controls a point from the baseline before stepping into the big forehand and wrong-footing her opponent with the winner . now she will serve for a place in the fourth round .
it still looks pretty comfortable for cirstea as she consolidates the break . watson works hard from the back of the court as she tries to put her opponent under pressure , but the romanian 's dominant forehand clinches the game for her .
another love game for makarova , who moves quickly inside on successive points to close out a comfortable hold . the russian is ranked fifth in the world in doubles and shows that touch at the net to chase down a short forehand from kvitova .
break and set ! whoa ! ivanovic crashes a forehand just over the net and it 's simply too hot for azarenka to handle even though it 's not wide of her . fantastic set from the underdog .
muguruza shows some fight by stepping into court to drive a backhand into the corner before serena concedes another double fault , her seventh of the match . surely there are n't nerves just yet ? muguruza earns three break points with a booming forehand from the back of the court and a williams error sees one of the breaks retrieved . the start of a miraculous comeback ? you never know .
knapp breaks ! sharapova 's third double fault gives knapp a second break point , which is converted when the third seed pushes a forehand just beyond the baseline .
knapp continues to play with real aggression and is duly rewarded as she comes out on top in two powerful forehand exchanges with sharapova , who then donates a couple of backhand errors , which are gratefully received . in other words , knapp wins four consecutive points and holds to 30 !
two aces and a wild muguruza forehand allow williams to reach 40-15 , before muguruza just misses the baseline with a return . important service game coming up .
sharapova goes long as she attempts to clip the baseline with her backhand , but she gets it second time around the level the game . more power from maria hands her the lead as she strikes the ball right out of the meat of the racquet with a forehand winner down the line . the number two seed displays pinpoint accuracy with her next forehand as she clips the corner to earn two break points . the 27-year-old secures the break back with a brilliant backhand into the same corner to quell the fightback from makarova .
this is a must-win game for azarenka , who has lost the last seven in a row . but when williams is timing backhands as well as this , winning a point is difficult . the american sweetly dispatches one down the line to take the score to 15-15 , but azarenka responds with a well-struck winner of her own . williams is just too good right now though , as she hits another winner and then forces a break point . azarenka saves it with a big second serve which williams can only net , and she holds on to win a gutsy game . she yells `` come on '' , and the crowd responds with loud applause .
as i feared at the start , it 's becoming another whitewash . a shame , but sharapova just has too much power - for most in the wta tour , in fairness .
williams wastes no time in easing ahead in the game , firing down an ace for 30-0 , but a second double fault reduces barty 's deficit . however , in trademark fashion , a blistering ace brings up two set points , but an inspired cross-court backhand from barty keeps her in the set . it 's not for long , though , and another huge serve helps williams take the set .
stephens holds for the concession of just one point . she 's right in this second set .
a promising start on serve for robson , putting a kick behind her first serve to quickly rattle off her opening service game to love . the court one crowd thoroughly enjoyed that game from the teenager .
break back ! ivanovic saves the first two but azarenka grabs the third by coming to net and putting away an easy overhead . can the belarusian now keep her cool and serve to stay in the set for a second time ?
it 's worst-case-scenario stuff for lisicki as she hits wide with a forehand to gift serena the break . it was ever so fortunate though for the top seed though because of those two dead net cords .
quick hold from azarenka . her first serve percentage reads 100 % , which is n't bad ...
azarenka holds comfortably again and stephens will have to start getting into her serve a little .
a good response from radwanska then , who holds fairly comfortably to force errani - who will be nervous - to serve out the set .
instead she decides to win the point after an astonishing rally . she 's first on defence , but turns it around to win the point with a big smash . can she hold this time ? if she does , she 's in the fourth round .
the russian starts with a powerful serve down the 't ' which yields a poor return before she crashes a winner into the corner with a fierce forehand . bouchard tries to match the number two seed stroke for stroke but ca n't control her forehand into the corner and then hits a loose backhand . the 20-year-old is long her on return again as sharapova moves further ahead in the set .
williams begins the match with a backhand error but a massive first serve down the middle sees her back on level terms . she takes the following three points in emphatic style and it 's a strong hold to start this semi-final .
makarova saves one , but sharapova breaks . an ominous sign , it took just seven minutes . can her opponent get a look in at the serve ?
on this form , can anyone stop serena williams ? the american hits four first serves which azarenka can do little with to move 4-1 ahead . after that gutsy hold last time out , azarenka must be deflated .
kanepi makes a strong start to her service game , but a double fault keeps lisicki in touch . the estonian fights back with a pacy ace , before sealing the game with an aggressive volley at the net . she 's been displaying an impressive range of shots the afternoon , and can still get back into this match if she can cut down on the mistakes .
break : awful start by sharapova , as she comes up with two more unforced errors to hand her opponent the first game to love .
excellent service game from watson , who finishes with a swerving ace down the middle . much more comfortable hold that time .
now she 's in front in the match , and that was a quite brilliant backhand winner to claim the game . a really good hold after her disastrous previous attempt .
when robson gets her first serve in it is too much for kvitova to handle . a solid service game allows robson to hold .
the breeze on arthur ashe seems to be getting stronger , but it 's doi who is coping the better , blasting a cross-court winner for 30-0. kvitova fight back to 40-30 , but doi comes through to regain her three-game advantage .
hampton holds . the 23-year-old from alabama is giving a fantastic account of herself here , as another forehand passes by azarenka . that 's 22 in total from that side alone in this match .
barty starts her fourth service game of the match with her third double fault , and williams takes advantage by dominating the next point for 0-30. the american makes two unforced errors to level things up , but another double fault gives the world number one a chance for the double break , which she takes when barty tamely slices the ball into the net .
sharapova breaks ! knapp fights back to 30-40 , but sharapova seals her seventh break of the match by tempting the italian into a risky backhand , which plunders into the net . for the second time today , the russian will serve for the match .
easy hold for sharapova . three big first serves see her race into a 40-0 lead . azarenka then fails to punish a rare second serve , as she fires wide from well inside the baseline on the ad court .
na gets the break ! really strong play once she got to deuce and that could be the beginning of the end of this one . sharapova simply must respond .
oh dear . keys sets up a point nicely for the chance to move 40-30 behind , but skews her forehand wide . that was probably radwanska 's most comfortable service game of the match so far .
muguruza has improved , but she misses two makable winners and that allows radwanska to get a look at 30-30. the spaniard holds firm though , taking the game when radwanska nets . this has been a terrific match .
vandeweghe needs a big serve a 30-30 to ensure that she does n't lose it on her own serve , but she pulls a 114mph delivery out of the bag , but a double fault on the next point brings up deuce . the american goes for power again to force advantage , and sharapova can only return to the net on the next point to leave herself serving for the match in the next game .
williams really has n't settled yet , which she shows when she slices a backhand well wide at the start of the game , but a couple of well-placed forehands help her recover . lim tries to catch williams out with a drop shot , but the world number one races into the net to get the return in and manages to bring up her first break point of the match , but a long shot from williams takes the game to deuce on the next point . both players had chances to wrap up the game , but it was williams who capitalised with a punchy backhand from the baseline to secure the break .
it 's azarenka 's turn to go on the offensive , responding from losing the first point with a perfectly-place baseline winner . the belorussian makes a couple of mistakes though , before williams wins the game with a cross-court winner .
lisicki ends a run of six straight games against her by holding to 15 .
strong hold from the brit as clijsters hits long with a forehand at 40-15 .
three in a row for the underdog . sharapova hits a wonderful forehand down the line to make it 15-15 , but jankovic refuses to go away and races to a break point . she then hits a powerful serve which forces sharapova to find the net . awesome start from jankovic .
oh dear jelena ! every time she makes some inroads , she gets broken straight back . it 's happened again . radwanska now serving to level up the set .
the 19-year-old talked about suffering with nerves at the start of her second round match , and they seem to be playing a part here . a double fault sees her fall 0-30 behind , but after she sends a winner down the line , she suffers a nasty slip . she is back up , but she faces two break points , which erakovic takes at the first opportunity with a forehand return winner .
li nets and zakopalova holds on . nothing is giving at the moment , so i ca n't see where a break is coming from !
utterly ruthless play from cetkovska earns the qualifier a first set she took with relative ease . wozniacki might be best served to pull out here in all honesty , effectively playing by applying weight on just one leg .
robson races to a 40-0 lead , but then mistakes from the brit allow kvitova to take the game to deuce , before taking the game with an ace .
the wind has gotten much stronger since we began the match 10 minutes ago , and the errors are flying off both racquets . it 's williams who is struggling the most , going long twice in succession to hand her opponent two game points , before driving the ball into the top of the net . it was a shaky start from azarenka , but she looks the more comfortable of the two now .
i 'm not sure how many points have gone against serve so far , but i 'm willing to bet it 's five or under . it 's exhibition stuff at the moment .
williams makes some aggressive returns to bring up two break points , but she wastes the first attempting to smash the ball past kuznetsova , and instead finds the net . the russian plays a good forehand from the baseline to take the game to deuce . kuznetsova seems to have the better of williams with her forehand , and she makes it count with two well-played points to win the game and consolidate her break .
bouchard 's struggles continue as kvitova wins the first two points to move onto 0-30 , but the 2011 champion then hits the net to hand bouchard a way back into the game . bouchard then double-faults , however , to hand kvitova two more break points . the first of those is saved with a brilliant forehand , before kvitova fires long for another deuce . another wild swing from kvitova hands bouchard advantage , but kvitova responds to level it at deuce two . eventually bouchard manages to hold when kvitova twice fires long in quick succession .
another stray shot from venus . 20 unforced errors tells its own story .
williams begins the second set with a hold of serve , but again it was far from comfortable , she really has n't been at her best so far this afternoon , but may just be trying to save her best tennis for later in the tournament .
the typical radwanska accuracy begins right away , and the pole moves quickly into a 40-0 lead , which she finishes off with a big serve that keys can only return into the net . solid start . very solid .
at 0-15 , williams makes her move to put away a smash , but he gives a point away with a rash forehand that clears the baseline . another serena error allows her opponent to reach 30-30 , but sharapova ca n't handle a return of serve , sending a backhand into the tramlines . big moment here , and williams strikes when sharapova double faults yet again .
muguruza cuts a rally short to challenge when a williams forehand appears to go long . it 's a bad decision . the ball clipped the line . there 's a few worrying moments for williams as she struggles to catch her breath after a few seconds of coughing . muguruza latches onto a second serve with a fantastic forehand winner . another poor second serve is punished . the door is open to muguruza . it 's kicked open by a double fault . two break points . oh dear . muguruza has a great chance to volley into the open court after sending williams wide , but a poor shot sends the ball long . williams gets a big serve in to force deuce , but the second serve is the problem as muguruza gets on top of another to bring up a third break point . williams defends impressively to bring the mistake from muguruza in the next rally . the defence gets even better as williams reaches a backhand on the stretch to leave muguruza helpless and the crowd amazed . muguruza hits three shots at williams , who reacts impressively at the net , but the spaniard eventually finds the gap to get back to deuce . the ace hands williams advantage again , but the response from muguruza is brilliant . two fine volleys arrive with what really are needless screams from williams , but muguruza keeps her composure to hit the line with an excellent forehand . the drama keeps coming . a double fault hands muguruza another break point before an ace immediately takes it away . another break point arrives , but the big first serve digs the top seed out of trouble again . fancy a sixth chance garbine ? she gets one , but once again she fails to convert as a backhand strikes the net . a marathon game eventually comes to and end . williams holds . will muguruza regret those missed chances ?
i 'm starting to feel a little sorry for vinci . her serve looks so weak , probably because williams is returning it with so much ferocity . the 21-time grand slam winner misses out with two set points , but on the third , vinci goes long with a backhand when attempting to sneak into the net . business as usual as far as williams is concerned .
a wonderfully well played point from sharapova begins the fifth set as he keeps bouchard at the back of the court before dropping the ball over the net to take the lead . a double fault from the canadian follows , but she battles back with an accurate backhand into the corner which is too good for the russian . however , sharapova earns another break point with a brilliant backhand to earn a break point , but back comes the canadian with an ace . a battle ensues on deuce , but bouchard plays a brilliant point then fires an unplayable serve at the russian to take the game .
halep is under pressure when a couple of errors keep azarenka at 30-30 , but the romanian does well to take charge of the next rally with a drop before finishing with an easy forehand into the open half of the court . azarenka responds with a superb return of serve before displaying good footwork to force deuce with a forehand winner . brilliant ! a couple of big serves rescue halep , who secures the hold by hammering do another forehand .
williams commits her fourth double fault to allow muguruza a look at 15-15 but the world number one is producing close to her ' a ' game now and a backhand winner from inside the court ensures that muguruza must serve to remain in this set .
every game so far has been a break in this set . this time the russian goes long and hands the lead back to her opponent . can azarenka consolidate this one ?
nice early pressure and aggression from robson , but an ace followed by a strong forehand down the line just about prove enough to earn kanepi the early hold .
trouble for vinci as she gives away a 40-0 lead off her own service , the italian succumbing to some huge forehands from her opponent . vinci comes back into it with more adroit placement into the corners , and she soon draws deuce despite being three break points down when mladenovic goes wide and long . deuce continues for what seems like an age , before vinci completes a vital hold after two errors from the youngster .
a comfortable service-hold from keys , but i guess that was to be expected after watson 's efforts of holding serve in the previous game . an important 10 minutes coming up .
williams makes a couple more unforced errors at the start of the game , but gets a lucky hit off the net chord . cirstea has a chance to clinch the game , leaving the top seed stretching following a big serve , but she smashes the ball into the net to bring up deuce . a brilliant cross-court backhand give williams a break point , but her return gets stuck at the net . two more superb serves from cirstea allows her to take the game through , and the romanian really seems to finding her way into this match .
meanwhile , back at rod laver arena , sharapova holds to 15 to level the second set .
after more than 12 minutes the game ends and it 's been a long while since a hold of serve . stephens breaks with a thunderous forehand down the line - we 've not seen that shot enough so far .
lisicki holds after being taken to deuce by radwanska , sealing the game with a deep forehand that radwanska miscues wide . the pole thinks the ball was out but she did n't challenge and that 's her own fault .
halep begins her second service game with a well-worked point completed with a drop shot , but three points later , she is facing two break points , which is all her own doing . pennetta should break on the first but dumps a backhand into the net , but on the second , halep does the same off the forehand wing . first blood to the italian .
nerves get the better of the teenager . she misses all of her first serves , struggling with her ball toss , and it 's an easy break back for kvitova .
eventually , she gets the job done . a little stutter , but she records the first hold of serve in the second set .
really well done from young laura as she comes back from 15-30 to hold serve and claim her third game in a row .
serena goes long and another service game flashes by . at this rate we 'll be in a tie break before 3am .
good play form zakopalova in the rallies in that game . she forces an error from li to go 30-15 up and gets game point with a wide return from the chinese . then another good rally goes the czech 's way and she 's one away from the opening set here .
serena should be making it deuce but instead she whacks a simple forehand well wide and azarenka has the hold . she 's just about hanging in there at the moment .
two forehands into the net from robson , give wozniacki the chance to win a fifth game in a row , but the british number one comes roaring back with some huge forehands and final backhand return winner to get one break back .
lisicki gets down low behind the baseline to make some tricky returns and edge ahead in the game , but kanepi ups the pace on her serve to keep herself in the set , sealing the game with another ace .
brilliant from pennetta , who replies to a halep drop-shot with one of her own for 0-30 and after bringing up three break points , she connects with a forehand winner down the line . she 's two holds away from a place in the final .
ivanovic shows some fight in reaching 30-15 but she is struggling to contain the power of safarova , who drills yet another winner into the corner . it 's 30-30 , and another double fault from ivanovic gives her opponent a look at the double break . credit to ivanovic though , who reels off three successive points to hold . she needed that .
williams looks back in the groove . one of the lobs of the tournament see her take a 30-0 lead , before a 126mph ... i repeat , a 126mph ... ace takes the world number to game point . another serve flies past azarenka and williams walks to her chair with the determined stare of a champion in waiting .
a 104mph ace brings up game point and she finishes it with another powerful shot right at the net . it was an important hold to get a bit of momentum up ahead of trying to break . radwanska to serve for the set .
she 's done it ! robson smashes her forehand past her opponent to take the lead for the first time in the third set , and will now serve for a place in the third round .
unbelievable ! williams rifles a backhand into the corner but somehow lisicki gets her racket to it and lobs the ball up . it 's just out of serena 's comfort zone and her smash on the reach goes just out ! there 's a bit of confusion as to whether it was called out and it was and serena does n't challenge . lisicki will serve for the match !
a much stronger start to the second set than the first for halep as she uses her serve to great effect to outmaneuvre the russian , but good tennis from the 10th seed brings her level in the match with one vicious forehand the highlight . two double faults in a row hand makarova a break point , while halep misses the line on a crucial passing shot to hand the russian the first game . after a bright start halep has handed control of the set to the russian .
it seems as though williams was almost teasing her opponent with those errors . she quickly makes amends with three sensational winners to race into a four-game lead .
robson holds to 30. she has beaten kim clijsters , agnieszka radwanska and venus williams during her fledgling career . now , she is just one game away from adding maria kirilenko to that list .
williams looks strong as she makes a series of stunning returns for force three break points . kuznetsova saves the first with a brilliant serve , forcing williams to return the ball wide , but she gets the break on the net point to get the deciding set back on serve .
radwanska remains a break ahead in the decider as she holds to 15 .
match point radwanska ... 5.44pm elsewhere , almagro and sock have entered another breaker . spain 's almagro won the first . how will sock respond ?
this time its kanepi 's turn to respond under pressure , showing resilience at the baseline to turn a tricky 30-30 game her way . robson is really struggling with her forehand pass at mid-court range , with the net proving a problem as she moved inside .
bouchard reels off three points in a row in rapid fashion and what a start this has been for the 19-year-old .
kanepi makes a superb backhand to set herself up for a forehand winner . she attacks lisicki 's second serve trying to bring up her first break point of the match , but puts too much power on the ball . a wide ball from the german brings up deuce , but she claims advantage with a delicate drop shot , sealing the game on the next point when kanepi fire the ball long .
a gutsy effort from robson sees the brit save successive break-point chances with a pair of aces . she then chases down a short shot at the net , showing neat footwork to swot a forehand across court . kanepi is then unable to keep a forehand return in play , completing a hold for robson that was imperative to her chances of producing a comeback .
wozniacki has 15-0 when williams hits one onto the side-court , but williams responds with an overhead smash . wozniacki takes the next point with a forehand down the line , but williams answers straight back as wozniacki hits the net for 30-30. a powerful serve allows the dane to set up game point , but deuce arrives when williams smashes a backhand across the court . the pair then exchange points before arriving at deuce once again , but eventually wozniacki holds when williams fires wide .
knapp breaks back ! still fuming from her missed opportunity in the previous game , sharapova capitulates on serve , handing knapp a match-levelling break to 15 with her sixth double fault of the match . 2.28am result : japanese number one kei nishikori is safely into round three . he completed a straight-sets win over dusan lajovic about 10 minutes ago . click here for our match report .
a fairly routine hold for azarenka there as she keeps the pressure on sharapova .
that 's much better from robson , who keeps erakovic on the run before planting a forehand winner into the corner . however , there are far too many mistakes in her game , and two unforced errors off her forehand hand erakovic 15-30. the timing off the brit 's racquet is way off , and more mistakes hand her opponent the double break .
kerber finally gets some meaning on her serve . she holds comfortably this time , but previously was getting the runaround from makarova .
a really important hold for the american . she 's looking tired , but saved break point after break point there to hold . five saved in one game , but she hangs on . i 'm not sure this one will ever end - we 've seen so many deuces .
after sending three successive returns into the net , halep is facing two set points , and even though she saves the first , pennetta moves a set ahead with a thunderous backhand down the line . a sensational start for the italian !
an early forehand error on the return from bacsinszky hands muguruza an advantage , but sloppy play from both players sees the scores level at 30-30. muguruza moves ahead when bacsinszky ca n't quite make the return on the forehand , before the spaniard takes the game with a well-planned winner using a forehand of her own .
at 0-15 , safarova gets a look at a second serve but she blazes a backhand just long of the mark . however , after firing a forehand winner , she creates two break points after ivanovic nets . the first is saved but safarova middles a return before being given the chance to put away an easy smash . we are back on serve on philippe chatrier .
what a start from both players . halep started the match with a baseline winner , but back came pennetta who brought up two game points , the first of taken but only after a brutal exchange that ended with the italian setting up a winner with a drop shot . no nerves from either player .
li saves it - which is the fourth overall she has fended off - and then finally finds a couple of good serves to just about hold . it was close , but she managed it . over to you , klara .
daniilidou 's backhand continues to be too floaty and azarenka does n't need more than one invitation to hit a winner . daniilidou goes long in another rally and it 's the second break of the set .
well , what a start for the chinese ! more due to bad play from sharapova than anything on her part , li brings it to deuce and she saves game point with a big backhand down the line . she earns herself a break point and converts it with sharapova netting .
encouraging cheers from the crowd as azarenka holds for the first time and gets her first game on the board in this women 's final .
a good start for bouchard as sharapova tries to catch the line on a cross-court forehand , but she just misses the line . the russian battles back with an ace and then shows a keen eye to challenge a shot from the canadian , which replays show bounced millimetres out . however , bouchard moves the 27-year-old around the court and produces a break point with two good forehands , but tries an ambitious winner which bounces out . deuce ensues , and a sharapova double fault hands bouchard a great chance to break , but two errors from the canadian reverses the situation . the russian gets the vital hold as she brilliantly stays in the point before nailing a passing backhand shot .
barty puts serena under a bit of pressure from the back of the court , and the american goes long to concede 30-0 , but she responds with a booming forehand down the line . she follows that with a huge backhand return , but she then goes long to give barty a game point . however , williams is all over barty 's second serve , and another return winner brings up deuce . the australian hangs in there though , and two mistakes from williams keep her in the set .
break and set ! watson comes out on top in the opening rally , but she is in trouble at 15-30 after two unforced errors . a double fault does n't help matters , and keys has two set points . watson saves the first , but she concedes the first set when she sends a topspin forehand into the bottom of the net .
barty shows that she still has the heart for the fight by getting the better of serena in the longest rally of the match , and the world number helps barty achieve 40-0 by miscuing a second-serve return . the next point is tentative , but barty holds her nerve to allow the ball to go just long , and she 's on the board in the second set .
not the best of starts from muguruza who is undone when she chops wide following a short rally . her next serve is a good one , but she fails again by sending a bullet into the net when the point is most definitely on . the scores are soon level , though , with muguruza producing good work on the backhand to undo bacsinszky 's promising start . the game is won when muguruza sends a forehand beyond the reach of her opponent having rushed the net with real force .
break : sharapova double faults for the fourth time in the game , which is finally taken by azarenka , who levels the final set at two games each .
what looked to be a comfortable service game ended in a break for sharapova . she serves now for the set .
it 's happened again . li breaks radwanska back for the third time and this one was to love . this one 's got to be ending in a tie-break .
with garcia running left to get back into the centre of the court , williams directs her return to the right-hand side of the baseline , leaving the frenchwoman pounding the grass with her racquet . however , she manages to channel her anger into a couple of fast serves , completing the game with an ace .
williams ' powerful returns are too much for kirilenko , as the american takes the first break in this match .
the moments we expect to see williams come out on top are going muguruza 's way , and that does n't happen too often . in truth , williams has n't been that poor , but it seems like she 's been shocked by muguruza 's approach . at 30-15 , we 're treated to a rarity - a williams challenge . it 's a good one , too , as hawkeye shows a muguruza forehand drifted long . muguruza appears to make the wrong decision when a drive volley is returned , but she responds with a forehand which clips the baseline . muguruza just refuses to be beaten in the longer rallies . williams blinks first with a long backhand , and the game goes to muguruza .
uh oh . it was going too well , was n't it ? robson goes marginally wide with a backhand , before making an error off the baseline . a double fault then hands erakovic three break points , but the first is saved with a forehand winner . the second is saved when erakovic goes millimetres wide with a return , and incredibly , the third is saved when erakovic stops play to dispute a first serve , and it 's called in . what a point ! robson is in inspired form now . erakovic looks in charge of the point before robson chases down a drop shot to force the error , and she holds serve when erakovic goes long off a return . massive hold . massive , massive hold ...
serena hits her groove on her forehand as she powers a forehand past keys , and two further powerful strikes off the forehand puts williams in command of the game . keys continues to frustrate the number one seed as she fires a backhand winner into the corner before forcing a mistake from the 33-year-old . it forces serena to focus on her serve and she gets one right out of the screws to bring a miscue from keys .
fairly routine stuff from both players keeps this first set on serve . kvitova as usual is looking to crush the ball at every opportunity , and shows intelligence at 40-15 to catch her opponent out with a wide serve . high-quality stuff on show early on !
sharapova makes a double fault , but vandeweghe misses a volley close into the net on the next point . sharapova is still struggling with her serve though , making another double fault , which is her 30th of the tournament , allowing vandeweghe to bring up another break point with a forehand to the sideline from midcourt . the 2004 champion responds with her first ace , but then makes her third double of the game . she finally manages to find some form on her serve though , forcing a couple of missed returns from the american to clinch the game . sharapova really does n't look comfortable with her serve at the moment .
sharapova looks like she senses blood here . she powers down a forehand winner on the way to reaching 15-40 , and although she ca n't convert her first chance , kirilenko slices long on the second to give sharapova the double break . that 's eight games in a row .
williams is barely breaking sweat , but that is what happens when you are drilling down 120mph aces . number seven and eight are recorded in this game and she holds to love . i 'm not too sure what vinci can do to get back into his contest .
a very comfortable hold from li , which puts a bit of pressure on zakopalova 's next serve here .
set point venus .
now it 's erakovic 's turn to hit the deck ... what is it about court two ? ! there has been a vast improvement in robson 's serve in this set so far , and an ace inbetween two unreturnable serves keep the brit ahead .
a seventh ace for serena is cancelled out by her fifth double fault , which increases to six to give her opponent a look at 15-30. however , williams reaches game point when two serves are n't returned but muguruza remains in the game when the american goes long . the world number one holds on though , and we remain on serve in this second set .
drop shot from kerber brings venus into the net . the american fails to put away the volley and powers a smash into the net . calamity .
after easing into a 30-0 lead , ivanovic has an easy forehand for 40-0 but she hooks it wide to give safarova half a chance . she regains control at 40-15 but safarova comes up with two powerful returns - the second of which is quite incredible - to get back to deuce . ivanovic looks mentally tuned in this afternoon though and she takes the next two points to move within a game of the set .
`` come on ! '' says lisicki as she delivers an ace , forcing bartoli to serve it out .
there are a few nerves in the arms of keys and two errors allow venus to build a 30-0 lead but on the next point , keys steps in to put away a forehand to reduce the deficit . the youngster gets to game point but venus forces her onto the defensive with a return and we get to deuce . venus hangs around but an ace and a stunning backhand winner ensures that keys gets on the scoreboard .
azarenka drills a forehand winner behind williams for 30-0 , but her first double fault of the final hands williams a chance , and the american displays her power once again with a cross-court winner . oh dear , victoria . two more double faults and serena has the double break . the belorussian player has capitulated .
back on ashe and robson turns around a mini-break by winning both points against the clijsters serve with a pair of big returns before opening up set point .
williams opens up with an ace , but azarenka fires back with a massive backhand . the american looks tense , and she pulls a backhand into the tramlines to let her opponent in . serena gets back to 30-30 , but another nervy shot goes into the net and azarenka has another break point ! blimey ! williams dumps a second serve into the net , and we have a tie-break !
vandeweghe makes just her second double fault of the match at the start of the game , while a massive return on the next point from sharapova puts the russian 30-0 up . the world number four is really finding the edges of the court at the moment , helping her bring up three break points , and she gets it at the first time of asking when vandeweghe miscues on a backhand , hitting the ball into the net .
williams plays superbly from the back of the court , but a sloppy forehand allows cirstea back into the game , bringing up deuce . she tries to seal the game by coming into the net to volley , but she does n't get a clean contact with the ball on it gets stuck on her side of the court . however , an ace restores advantage , before another good serve seals the game .
you feel if she broke there it would be curtains for her opponent . however , it 's advantage mattek-sands as a ball hits the edge of the line on deuce and she follows it up with a hold . she 's still a break behind , but has had chances and will surely get more .
it 's a break to love and a big time for it . the injury must be behind her now , as she fair dominated that game . you ca n't look beyond her now .
i only said `` on the brink '' . back comes williams with an emphatic hold to love and this match seems far from over .
vital hold for keys ! from 0-40 down it looked over , but she turned it up and is still clinging on in this set , and indeed the match . can she build on the momentum that game would have provided ?
this is just too good from erakovic . firstly , she finds the line with a forehand , before she takes robson out wide before converting the winner . the brit then nets a return , and erakovic moves one away from the fourth round with another ace . that game was pretty much perfection .
a hold to love from williams . no problem at all with her serve so far . in the last match we were still in the first game after seven minutes . here , we 've had three games flash by .
the answer to that question is very well thank you very much ! she serves out with an ace to level up the set at one game apiece .
vandeweghe makes a strong start as she serves to stay in the opening set , thumping a 115mph serve towards her opponent . at 40-0 , vandeweghe sends sharapova to the far left with a well-timed forehand , before coming into the net to find the opposite side of the court on the half-volley , forcing sharapova to try to serve it out .
bacsinszky looks relatively comfortable at 30-15 but a double fault and forehand error later and she 's staring at a break point . she gets into the next exchange but williams is too strong and puts away the drive volley at the net .
lisicki makes a couple of errors with her groundstrokes , forcing the ball long twice in succession , but two poor net shots from kanepi help the german to deuce . another long effort from lisicki gives kanepi advantage , and she wraps up the game with a solid smash from inside the baseline .
the backhand is proving effective for bacsinszky and after some early errors she draws parity with the spaniard with an effective thump across the face of the court . bacsinszky continues to apply the pressure and muguruza hands over break point when she fires into the net at close range . the spaniard does n't give up though and wrestles back deuce by forcing her opponent to throw a shot high and wide from the baseline . muguruza gains advantage , but then concedes deuce with a forehand error . bacsinszky takes the lead for a second time with a backhand winner to setup a break point . the swiss star then drops it as muguruza rushes the net and cuts one over to score . the spanish star eventually holds her serve to win the game when bacsinszky fails to return , once on the forehand and then on the backhand .
sharapova makes an uncharacteristic error in this match as she finds the net with a loose forehand , but she hits back with a solid serve . makarova shows fight in the game when she displays her power across the court to win a vital point , while a double fault from maria gives her two break points . the number two seed manages to save one of those points as makarova finds the net , but sharapova follows suit in the next to bring the 26-year-old right back into the match .
venus opens with a hooked backhand that goes wide before keys gets fortunate with a net cord to advance to 0-30. the danger signs are there already but the 34-year-old records four successive points - two which were gifted to her by keys - to secure a hold in the opening game .
safarova starts with ace but williams hits back with a baseline winner that catches the line . the world number one digs deep to force a mistake out of her opponent but the score moves to 30-30 after a forehand finds the net . however , williams gets a break point after safarova goes long and it 's taken when she middles a backhand return . she will serve for her third french open and 20th grand slam crown .
eventful first game , which lasts over 10 minutes ! a strong first point by sharapova as she works makarova around the court before coming to the net to dab a volley into the opposite side of the court . a double fault follows from the 27-year-old , while she slams a forehand into the net in the next point to really ramp up the pressure on herself . sharapova then hands makarova two break points as she fires a loose forehand out when going for the line . however , she finds her form with a excellent forehand winner before a loose shot from makarova brings about deuce . an error from makarova looks to have bailed out her compatriot , but she rallies back with a solid forehand to the back of the court , which maria ca n't return . neither player seems to want to win the game as the 26-year-old goes long with a backhand while the 2008 champion double faults again . more errors follow from both players , before sharapova finds her range with a backhand winner following a long rally while she wins the game with a powerful forehand .
keys hits backs with a hold of her own as radwanska 's return skills have dropped in the past 20 minutes . the american 's serve was under pressure in the first , but since the middle of the second , the pole has been unable to register much resistance . keys secures the game relatively quickly to tie the set a 2-2. the match is very much in the balance at the moment as neither player looks to be faltering on serve .
radwanska is known for being able to absorb the power of her opponents , but she 's struggled to contain muguruza in these early stages . the spaniard hits her way to three game points , and although radwanska improves to reach 40-30 , muguruza connectes with a one-two behind her serve to complete the game .
that backhand is really ferocious from the bulgarian as she swipes one cross-court from above her head . radwanska responds with a brilliant forehand return but pironkova wraps up the game at the net after a really fine rally from both women .
well it may not have been the best service game from williams , but she looks unstoppable as she returns the russian 's serve , claiming a 40-0 lead with a series of strong forehand strokes to bring up three break points , before a shot to the net from kuznetsova seals the game for the american .
the pair are back in their chairs after one point as radwanska nets a forehand .
a devastating break against robson . the brit was 40-15 up , but a string of errors allowed kvitova back in to the game , and she punished robson for her mistakes .
bouchard starts well as she finds a backhand winner to the baseline to pick up the first point of the game , while a double fault from sharapova gives her a glimmer of hope . however , the 27-year-old comes roaring back with an accurate serve and picks out the corner with her return and then powers back into the game moving bouchard around the court to get a game point . a loose shot from the number seven seed hands her the game as her forehand crashes into the bottom of the net .
after racing into a 40-0 lead , hantuchova loses her first service point of the match , shortly followed by her second . however , williams then shanks a backhand wide , as her opponent holds to 30 .
sharapova races to a 3-0 lead as williams is struggling with the rhythm of her serve . surely sharapova has to drop a game at some point , she 's now won 27 in a row at the australian open !
at 0-40 azarenka decides to turn it on . the final break point is saved with a superb backhand to wrong-foot her greek opponent . then came that superb rally and instead of a break the top seed is 4-0 up in the second .
muguruza holds an early lead after a mistake from bacsinszky , who is then undone be a telling backhand from the spaniard who holds control at 30-0. bacsinszky comes back into it by forcing muguruza into consecutive errors on the forehand . the errors continue for the 20th seed and bacsinszky takes the game following two mistakes on the back and forehand .
williams continues to look strong on serve , making a series of strong and accurate deliveries yet again to give herself an easy hold . except for the first game of the second set , garcia has not been able to test the williams serve .
the first two points are shared , but williams steals the advantage with a smash into the corner . a second smash takes the american to two break-back points , but the first goes begging , as does the second as williams slips when attempting a forehand . another shot into the net gives vinci a game point , but she double faults . the tension ! the second serves of vinci are slowing down but she survives . she is one game away from one of the biggest shocks since ... ever .
williams nets a second-serve return , but she replies with a serve to the body that azarenka can do nothing with . williams looks focused and after holding her second service point , a cross-court winner brings up the mini-break . azarenka goes for broke on the net , and a drive volley catches the back of the line . unbelievable stuff from azarenka , who drills a shot straight at the advancing williams , who nets an attempted drop-volley . we are at 3-3 at the change of ends .
it 's a good service game from azarenka . it looks like the break in the previous game has lifted the reigning champion , as she keeps li off the score board against her serve .
morita holds , though williams does n't look like she 's firing on all cylinders just yet . feeling her way into this one .
ivanovic finally gets on the scoreboard in the second set but still trails by an early break of serve .
heavy hitting from bartoli puts stephens under pressure in her first service game , slamming a baseline winner across court to reach deuce . a very positive response from the american starlet though , following a forehand winner with a first ace to ease her way into the match .
kerber fires long and will now face a triple break point herself .
the czech shows no mercy to take a two-game lead in the first set . wozniacki looks uncomfortable and takes her time to adjust the strapping on her foot before the next service game , which should give a better indication as to how freely she can move after that injury .
venus is mixing up her serves to good effect and after two are returned off target by keys , the 18th seed drives down an ace . a love hold is converted when keys is unable to handle a serve to her backhand side .
it 's sharapova to serve first , and she takes the opening two points after errors from williams . however , the russian has problems with her serve , floating a second serve in before conceding a double fault . it 's 30-30 , which soon becomes deuce when sharapova goes long with a backhand . a second double fault gives serena the first break point of the match , before a third gives the american the game . that 's not a good sign ...
azarenka wins the next four points to force ivanovic to serve it out . at the moment ivanovic seems to be guessing right when azarenka has an easy shot every time !
the belarusian is back to her best in that game . more big serves and good net play get her to 40-15 and , despite a double fault , she holds relatively routinely . she 'll face now and must keep attacking the russian 's serve as she has done in every one of kuznetsova 's games so far .
azarenka breaks : hantuchova comes up with two well-placed aces , but she then negates her good work with three forced errors , squandering game point , before being broken to 40 .
williams catches the baseline to go 15-0 ahead , but she then nets a seemingly easy put-away . azarenka is freeing up her shoulders and it pays dividends to bring up two break points . an ace saves the first , and after azarenka goes long on back-to-back points , williams wallops a serve down the middle to take the game .
the brit starts the third comfortably by holding to-15 , can she gain an early break in the second ?
it has happened again . clever smash from radwanska , who instead of power drops it short where errani has no hope of reaching it . then a drop shot from the italian clips the top of the net and to safety for deuce - really skilful shot . yet another drop shot from errani takes her to game point ; again it 's really well disguised . radwanska saves it marvellously by guessing the right way with a volley - i had my savings errani going left there , but she went right and the pole was there . after five deuces radwanska finally claims the game with a solid net winner .
the pole has successfully quelled the pressure from errani and is now getting on top of matters . she is forcing errors with much harder hitting , with a fatal forehand into the net from the italian giving up a second break running .
ivanovic has chances to win one or both of the first two points , but she takes neither and safarova has 30-0. the czech sees her deficit halved when she goes long , but another devastating winner sees her open up two game points . ivanovic shows excellent resilience though , saving both points before surviving a third thanks to a huge forehand from the baseline . she ca n't save the fourth as safarova peppers her with shots from all angles and she is one game away from her first grand slam final .
the errors from robson are n't helping , but erakovic has looked mightily impressive so far , especially on her forehand side . she eases to 40-0 , before gifting robson a point with a double fault . however , she responds with an ace to move three ahead inside 10 minutes .
that 's a poor game from lisicki , radwanska did n't have to do much there .
finally , she gets the breakthrough she probably deserves . she was helped by some really lax play from azarenka , but still trails by a break in this set .
after a couple of error-strewn games from both players , the tennis is starting to flow a little more now , with some good baseline rallies . the change in style seems to suit sharapova , as she forces a couple of wide shots from williams to give herself a break point . williams sends the russian running along the baseline , but the defending champion is able to keep the point alive , and the american fires the ball long to hand sharapova the break .
a double fault gifts morita the break of serve .
the standard of tennis has got marginally better over the past 10 minutes , but the errors are still there , and doi goes long twice in a row to hand kvitova two break points . doi continues to be aggressive , but after hooking a forehand wide of the line , she is just a game away from going out of this year 's tournament .
she nets on the first but takes the second as vika curls a forehand into the tramlines . so hard to pick a winner now .
remarkably , this is kvitova 's 30th three-set match of the year . incredible start . she needed a positive start to the decider , and she gets it , taking the game when doi nets a return .
radwanska has some joy , prevailing from the best rally of the match and striking a clean forehand winner , but on the remaining points , she is helpless as muguruza produces more relentless hitting to move to within a game of a place in the final .
kirilenko holds to 15. she has made 10 first serves so far and won the point on every single occasion . the russian has won just three of seven points behind her second serve .
another brilliant forehand from kvitova moves the 2011 champion 15-0 ahead and that quickly becomes 30-0 following a volley from the middle of the court . bouchard then fails to return a powerful serve as kvitova moves 40-0 ahead , but the czech then double-faults for 40-15. kvitova eventually manages to hold with a stunning forehand .
azarenka holds to 15 thanks to some wayward striking by her opponent .
a couple of errors see the players tied early on , but mladenovic then tries to force it only to go long and concede . vinci chops a poor return wide to bring things to 30-30 , before more dodgy shots from both players eventually bring deuce . some luck at the net gives vinci break point , which she then takes as mladenovic finds the mesh from close range . poor from the youngster , and that could be vital in the outcome of this quarter-final .
errrm , that 's now 12 points in a row for williams as she again holds to love . what a turnaround .
at 30-30 , kirilenko goes for a drop shot , but it drops too early and fails to make it over the net to give williams a break point . a fierce return from williams allows her to convert , and it feels like it 's just a formality for the 15-time grand slam winner now .
call the police , there 's been a robbery on centre court !
she responds with an excellent forehand winner , but that was at 0-40. the damage had already been done and it is compounded with another poor shot into the net .
very comfortable hold from the reigning champ , which will be a worrying sign for kuznetsova 's camp . the world number one is closing in on victory .
she 's a little lucky , but lisicki has broken the radwanska serve and will serve for a place in her first grand slam final .
kirilenko is beginning to move sharapova around the court effectively and the former champion is looking flustered . after getting to 30-0 , the two russians enjoy a stunning exchange that ends with kirilenko putting a forehand into the corner for three game points . she does n't convert the first though - instead , she miscues the ball into the stands where actor alec baldwin is waiting to take the catch ! that mistake disrupts kirilenko and a double fault allows sharapova to get back to deuce , but after creating her fifth game point , kirilenko delivers an absolute screamer of a forehand from the baseline to consolidate the break .
a comfortable hold for the russian . and an important one too .
the door is slightly ajar at 0-15 but ivanovic is made of stern stuff and powers back to 30-15. safarova 's hitting is ruthless though and a forehand winner takes her to within two points of the final . back comes ivanovic with a winner of her own before she confirms the hold with a huge serve down the middle .
kvitova serves well at the start of the game , following up an ace with another powerful delivery , but kvitova hits it straight back with a backhand winner . at deuce , the fifth seed pulls off a stunning cross-court two-handed backhand to bring up advantage , before following it up with another winner on the backhand to seal the game . given some of the errors she 's made during her own service games in the second set , that was a solid effort from the czech .
robson overcooks her forehand , before a couple of excellent backhands from wozniacki bring up two break-point chances . another double-fault gives the dane the lead again .
it 's a cool start to the second set from lisicki . she 's been catching kanepi out all afternoon with her drop shot , and she does it again , helping her to a comfortable hold .
azarenka needs to stop williams 's momentum here , but the game starts badly as the american hits a backhand past her and she hits an unforced error . serena loses the next point to give azarenka hope at 15-30 , before a wild backhand levels the score . a big forehand catches the baseline to give williams a break point , and she takes it as azarenka hits a backhand wide . the former world number one ca n't handle williams in this form .
a forehand winner gets vinci off to the perfect start but pennetta replies with a big serve down the middle . the next two points are shared , but the first mini-break goes to pennetta after vinci drills a forehand long . the world number 43 then does the same off her backhand wing and pennetta is in charge at the change of ends .
and that 's followed by her first ace ! absolutely vital , that hold , for the second seed .
still going with serve this set . both women winning points with power . there 's not much room for breaks or rallies , in truth . there are flashes , though , and it 's certainly high quality tennis .
after the opening two points are shared , bacsinszky controls the next rally before forcing her opponent into the error . the swiss then hits the way to the next two points to leave williams having to serve to remain in the first set .
i think it 's quite rare that radwanska does n't get a point on her opponent 's service game , although she was helped by some poor shots from the chinese in this game . radwanska nets a simple backhand on first break point , but na returns the favour on the second one and first blood the pole .
safarova makes an unforced error to allow ivanovic to get back to 15-15 , before the former world number reaches 30-30 courtesy of a testing drive volley . big point coming up , but what a response from safarova , who fires an ace out wide . the game is secured when ivanovic goes just wide with a return .
finally , robson manages to cash in a break point , and takes a two-game lead in the second set . kvitova is still struggling to get her first serve in , giving robson a greater chance to return .
williams consolidates the break with little trouble .
break azarenka takes a 0-30 lead on her opponent 's serve but vesnina finds a couple of first serves to draw level . it is n't enough though , as vesnina tamely hits a backhand into the net on break point .
break back ! the double faults come back to haunt sharapova as a first brings up a break point for azarenka before a second hands the world number one the break . a route back into this one for the belarusian ?
this could be a decisive break . it took her four attemps , but finally she steps into a big forehand winner to get her nose ahead in the set . her power is just too much at times .
pretty tentative movement at the baseline from wozniacki , who slams a forehand into the net to fall 15-30 behind on serve . cetkovska retains her focus to earn two break points , with simple returns over the net enough to force errors from her stricken opponent . all to easy for the czech as she earns a double break .
williams comes out on top of a badminton-style exchange of volleys , before sharapova catches her out with a delicate drop shot . williams finds another gear to take the game , and sharapova will serve for the match again .
another game full of deuces and advantages for azarenka finally sees her take it and it needed a return into the net from her opponent to make it happen . looking likely to be a tie break this first set .
she 's pretty much cruising now . a comfortable service hold from her and she 's one game away from a place in the second week of wimbledon . it has not been easy , however .
williams appears to be back in the driving seat now . three game points are created in next to no time before she edges ahead with her 11th ace of a pulsating encounter .
from 30-0 up cibulkova finds herself break point down and sure enough going for the big cross-court winner puts her forehand into the tramlines . big advantage now for li , but she needs to hold to consolidate the break .
pennetta is starting to look really solid during her service games , following up a cross-court backhand with a forehand winner down the sideline on her way to a 40-15 lead , before kvitova finds the net with her backhand , keeping the set on serve . the longer the set goes on , the more comfortable the italian looks , despite having played more tennis at this year 's us open than her opponent .
serena has won all 17 points on her first serve today , which soon becomes 18 with a serve out wide . the american then adjusts well at the net to put away a volley , and her sixth ace of the match brings up two game points . the world number one 's first serve continues to be mightily impressive and another serve is n't return and she moves one game away from the second round .
double break and set ! the second set is over in a flash as azarenka breaks to love .
sharapova looks under real pressure at 15-15 , but three consecutive errors from knapp 's forehand hand the russian a priceless hold to 15 .
robson threatens to break again as she battles into a 15-30 lead at the start of the second set , but kirilenko shows resilience and holds to 30 .
the two keep at it with the heavy hitting before azarenka eventually holds . all eyes on sharapova now as she steps up to serve .
lisicki tries too hard to wrap the match up in this game , putting for too much on the ball during her returns to give kanepi a 40-0 lead . however , she turns back to her drop shot , which has been incredibly successful this afternoon , to keep herself in the game . some solid groundstrokes from lisicki have her opponent on the defensive , and the estonian hits the net before blasting the ball long to bring up deuce , but some big serves from kanepi allow her to hold . lisicki will now serve for a place in the last four .
double break ! deary me , what a limp performance this is from ivanovic . she 's broken again and now bouchard will serve for the match and a place in round three of wimbledon .
the defending champion finds herself under pressure as she fires a shot wide before making a double fault to give lim a 30-0 lead , but she finds her composure , getting herself back into the game with an ace before using her power to escape with her serve intact .
at 30-30 , the pair get in to a lengthy rally . li loops the ball high , and azarenka must have lost track of it along the way as she mis-hits it , and it finds the net to give the sixth seed a break point . a wide ball on the next point takes the game to deuce though , before azarenka lands a stunning forehand stroke just inside the sideline . a well-placed serve from the reigning champion is too good for li to return , and the world number one if just one game away from keeping the title .
cirstea is just one game from a place in the second round now , breezing through another service game to leave watson serving to stay in the match .
that 's a second hold in this set from 0-30 for radwanska and it 's not the pole 's good play that 's doing it , more li 's inconsistency .
well , kuznetsova has made the early breakthrough . she has made life difficult for the dane , who struggled to close out . there were five deuce points , but the russian eventually got the job done with on her second break point of a marathon game .
li goes on to hold to 30 and we remain level in the opening set . over on no . 1 , lisicki remains a break up against kanepi serving at 3-2 .
the 19-year-old finds a brilliant forehand to the corner to take the lead , but then gets extremely lucky on the second point as her forehand clips the net but bounces onto serena 's side of the court . serena commits an error as she fires a backhand into the net before keys takes the set to a tie-breaker as she delivers an ace down the middle of the court .
serena starts the next game with two uncompromising serves before vinci floats a second-serve return long of the baseline . bad miss . the game is sealed when vinci does exactly the same on the first game point . better from williams though .
a careless forehand from kanepi finds the net on the opening point of the game , before lisicki smashes her forehand long . the 23rd seed has an immediate chance to break back though , as the estonian sends her backhand long , before lisicki makes a brilliant volley . a strong serve from kanepi saves the first , but she hands the break back with a double fault . the nerves just seem to be getting to both players at the moment .
no problems on her own serve either for pironkova , who holds relatively comfortably to consolidate the break . how can the world number four respond to this ?
li saves the break point with a strong backhand and another close game this time goes the way of the serve . li consolidates her break ; the perfect start .
kvitova manages to get through a service game without facing a break point as pennetta struggles to get her returns back in , before watching a kvitova forehand fly past her to secure the game for the fifth seed . while kvitova has n't looked settled at all , the longer this match goes on , it is likely to play into kvitova 's hands , as she 's spent less time on court reaching this stage , and unlike pennetta has n't been involved in the doubles .
vandeweghe makes a double fault at the start of the game as it looks like she might be starting to feel the pressure , but she quickly puts the behind her , timing her groundstrokes to perfection to take a 40-15 lead . a run of unforced errors from the american get the game back to deuce though , before sharapova hits some solid forehands from the back of the court to bring up advantage , but she forces the ball slightly long to miss out on the break point . vandeweghe gets the advantage when the fourth seed hits another ball long , and she escapes with her serve intact after a big serve into sharapova 's body . the points were noticeably longer in that game , with more rallies starting to feature in this contest .
clijsters nets a return and robson is ahead in the set . this is the belgian 's final tournament as a professional and she looks to be going out with a whimper .
the wind appears to have picked up at roland garros and it plays its part in safarova committing a double fault for 15-15. the left-hander is warming into this , however , and two crowd-pleasing winners take her to within a point of the game , which she takes when ivanovic nets a return .
lisicki finally holds as kerber sends a backhand lob past the baseline .
robson is really starting to find her shots now , smashing a forehand cross-court , before an even better one down the line sets up break-point . wozniacki twice saves the break though , and escapes the game with a well-placed backhand .
williams gets her big serve working for her , with garcia failing to get her first two returns in , before the top seed secures her first ace of the match . another powerful delivery from the american is too much for the 19-year-old to control , giving williams a comfortable start on serve .
williams has gone off the boil and gifts the opening point to safarova with a wayward backhand before another error , this time off the forehand wing , gives safarova 15-30. it 's two break points to the left-hander when williams blazes a backhand miles wide of the line and we are back level after yet another double fault . what is going on ? !
halep starts with a solid point off her second serve as she creates space to hit a forehand winner on the right side of the court . however , she struggles in the next two points with two unforced errors into the net on her forehand . makarova plays well to earn two break points as he manoeuvres halep into the corner and her backhand slice goes out . the russian takes the break as halep smashes another forehand into the net . a great start for the 10th seed .
there 's an angry look on the face of sharapova after she fails to convert break point , allowing knapp to hold .
robson just spurns a chance to take charge of the first set , with kanepi going back to basics behind a first serve to get the hard-fought hold . the brit is clearly happy to exchange with her powerful opponent at the baseline though , which does well for a match full of attacking intent .
indeed she does break back ! we 're with serve again , but not really if that makes sense !
williams double faults at 40-15 after being called for a foot fault but consolidates the break on the next as lisicki hits out on the return .
brilliant point as radwanska defends superbly to get back in the rally , but errani is too strong with a forehand that the pole can not return . that said , errani has looked very suspect with her smash today - she 's either missed or passed it right back to radwanska with every one so far . she then hits to net to hand radwanska two break points , but saves the first with a whipped backhand past the advancing pole . the second is saved with an aggressive net point , finishing with a simple forehand . neither player is giving everything up as another wonderful net point is finished with a drop volley from the italian and she eventually holds an important game - the longest of the match at 10 minutes .
vinci comes through with a hold to 30 but you feel as though this match belongs to pennetta providing that she shows a little more aggression . she is currently too tentative when vinci begins to slice the ball .
sharapova commits another double fault but it comes at 40-0 and she holds for the third game in succession with a serve out wide . despite the one-sided nature of the first set , this is competitive now .
the tennis is not of a particularly high quality at the moment . stephens holds serve comfortably , but there 's something of a lack of urgency . stephens does n't seem to want to hammer the nail into the coffin of her compatriot just yet , and has taken the foot off the gas a bit .
really good hold from pironkova after being 0-40 down . that 's encouraging fighting spirit at the start of the deciding set .
kvitova is on the hunt early on in the game , clearly boosted after saving break points in the previous game . a forehand winner from the czech is followed by a missed effort out wide from the 26th seed , giving her opponent a 40-15 lead , but more unforced errors from the two-time grand slam champion let pennetta back in . she serves well to force a wayward return from kvitova , before getting the better in a baseline exchange with the fifth seed to seal the game .
if it can go wrong for williams at the moment , then it is doing . after dropping her first set of the tournament and tweaking her ankle , williams has to battle with her hair coming loose ! it 's yet another irritation for the world number one . kuznetsova takes advantage of her opponents diminishing confidence to force another break point , but she gets too aggressive with her return to take the game to deuce . williams targets her shots to the kuznetsova backhand , knowing that she has been struggling against her forehand , to win a 15-stroke rally . the top seed fails to read kuznetsova 's backhand , and is left rooted to the spot as the russian brings up another break point , but she saves it yet again . williams eventually forces advantage , and is able to seal the game when kuznetsova loses her footing and hits the deck .
sharapova leaves nothing to chance by hitting her way to 30-0 but back comes williams , who unleashes an unstoppable backhand into the corner . the russian earns two game points , but serena is relentless , powering the ball with authority to reach deuce . a double fault gives williams a match point , but the five-time winner somehow misses with a forehand . sharapova eventually holds , but williams will now serve for a place in the final .
it 's a gift . kuznetsova double faults and she really has taken her foot off the pedal in this set . she 's allowed wozniacki back in rather than the dane playing her way back in . wozniacki has taken her chances , though . all credit to her .
safarova is pumped after that last game , and ivanovic feels the pressure in committing a double fault to start the game . that 's followed with a baseline winner before ivanovic goes long with a forehand . safarova has three break points and this would be huge in the context of the match . the first is saved but on the second , ivanovic slices wide and safarova has the advantage .
it 's a comfortable hold for radwanska , who drops just one point on the way to the opening game . that 's just what she will have wanted . i 'm anticipating either a close match with errani winning , or a radwanska blowout . we 'll see , as she serves for the first time .
no danger from azarenka of breaking back at the moment as ivanovic breezes through that game to 15 to edge within a game of the opening set . we 've played half an hour of tennis on ashe .
superb way to hold ! serena does well to get back a big lisicki serve and her return just dips over the net . lisicki has to go for broke and finds the corner with a down-the-line backhand .
kirilenko drills a stunning backhand winner down the line to take the opening point , but sharapova begins to display her superior power to get to 30-15. what 's been impressive from kirilenko so far is that she is getting herself into most of the rallies and it 's seemingly making sharapova doubt herself . a double fault and a forehand error give kirilenko break point and after she makes up a lot of ground at the back of the court , sharapova blazes a forehand long and it 's kirilenko who strikes first !
so , we have a final set shoot-out ! williams serves first , and she starts positively with a big serve and a booming backhand to go 40-0 up . a wild forehand gives azarenka a point , but williams holds on to win the game .
garcia makes a brilliant return at the start of the game as she seems to be adapting to williams ' serve , but the american finds another gear , quickly wrapping the game up with two aces .
sharapova makes a couple of excellent returns to take a 30-15 lead in the game , but misjudges a second serve from the american to keep her opponent in the game , before a low forehand from the fourth seed allows vandeweghe to keep the set on serve .
the spaniard applies lots of pressure early on and she cruises through to a 40-15 lead as bacsinszky makes far too many errors on the return . muguruza seals the game when her opponent can only force her backhand attempt straight into the net .
great early showing from jankovic , who makes sharapova work for it and earns two break points . however , the defending champion hit two massive forehands on the way to rescuing deuce . the two trades blows in the deuce , with jankovic possessing an advantage on four occasions , only for sharapova to respond . however , she secured the first game after encouraging sharapova to slam the ball out of play .
robson takes the first two points , the second of which is her fourth ace , but an impressive backhand volley keeps erakovic in the game . however , she then makes a glaring error when attempting a drop shot , and robson takes the game when her opponent ca n't handle her power from the baseline . this is the first time that robson has been ahead in the match .
with makarova going wide with the final point for another very comfortable sharapova service game .
at 15-30 , vinci gets a good look at a second serve but she goes for too much and it flies out . let off for pennetta . she makes the most of the second one , though , and it 's break point for vinci . it goes begging , but she has a second after tying up her opponent at the net . pennetta looks tentative and vinci takes advantage , smashing the ball into the corner and she is back in this set .
williams is furious with herself when she sends a backhand long . muguruza is similarly frustrated as she hits a simple volley too hard . a shout of approval from williams follows a rally when she finally seemed to be dictating the tempo . muguruza then misses the line by about an inch to gift her opponent two break points . the spaniard responds by wrong-footing the top seed with a superb backhand , but she hits a forehand long to give williams the game . was that the turning point ?
keys hits two shots into the net to give venus the lead but it 's the points either side of 15-30 that suggest that keys is n't ready to give up on this . she 's continuing to go for broke with her forehand and it gets her an imperative hold .
very solid from errani , who does n't allow radwanska a look in there and she takes us to a tie-break .
three unforced errors cost kvitova badly as pennetta brings up two break points , returning excellently from the back of the court . kvitova tries to responds , hitting an excellent backhand winner , but she looks exhausted as she gets ready for the next point , which ends in a long forehand from the fifth seed . it 's advantage pennetta in the deciding set .
incredible . just when it appeared that halep was on her way to levelling the match , she produces a shocker of a service game that ends with a double fault . in all fairness , pennetta did contribute with some heavy hitting from the back of the court but that was poor from the second seed .
a love hold to start the second for li . the perfect way to get over the opening set .
venus challenges a call on first serve and it 's successful . has the tide turned ?
a challenge arrives from halep early in the game , but the technology proves the azarenka serve clipped the line . halep is handed a point with a double fault , before sending a backhand long on the stretch . azarenka secures the hold to 15 to stay ahead . good response from the belarussian .
it 's an excellent start from ivanovic , who holds to 15 with the help of a baseline winner and an ace .
into a tie-break we go as li holds to 15. i 'm backing radwanska here ...
radwanska comes up short when she pushes far too long to put keys ahead at 30-15 , but the american ca n't hold on as she fires beyond the baseline at 30-30. radwanska misses one horribly to give keys break point , but the youngsters drops it by hitting straight into the net . the polish star eventually holds out on her serve as keys falters on the backhand .
the 13th seed consolidates the break by holding to 15 as azarenka 's simply drive-volley balloons up off the tape and drops long . everything going ivanovic 's way at the moment .
perfect response from bartoli , who is now just one game away from taking her first ever set of sharapova .
makarova continues her habit of unforced errors as she overhits her forehand once again in this match . she responds well as she manoeuvres the number two seed around the court , which brings the error from sharapova as she tries to hit down the line . both players exchange excellent tennis shots in the next two points as makarova finds a winner , but sharapova follows suit with a forehand down the line . raw power from sharapova overwhelms her compatriot as she blasts a forehand across the court , but a smash from the 10th seed levels the game . a solid serve down the 't ' and an error from the 2008 champion secure an important hold from makarova , and she desperately needed it .
safarova also begins well to race to 30-0 but a couple of mistakes let in ivanovic at 30-30. the former world number one looks focused at the start of this contest and she forces the error out of safarova to earn break point . it 's saved with an ace but ivanovic creates a second chance with a thunderous forehand down the line . safarova looks in charge of the next rally but ivanovic comes up with an awkward backhand that safarova volleys wide .
stosur finally comes out on top with what you would describe a champion 's reaction ! robson now serving to stay in the set .
watson has been second best in the past two games , and she desperately needs to stop the rot because keys is playing with plenty of confidence . the brit does get to 30-30 , but two massive aces from the american take her one game away from the second round .
a really strong attempt from sharapova for the break , but li shows fantastic composure at deuce to win the game . we 're with serve in this set .
big hold for the second seed , who gets away with back-to-back double faults to win game six to 30. the belarusian secures the hold with a confident and decisive volley at the net .
after winning the opening point , cibulkova throws in a very nervy-looking double fault but a timely first serve helps her to 30-15. serena looks a tad sluggish as she dumps a backhand into the net but she benefits again from a cibulkova double fault . however , the diminutive slovakian forces the error out of her opponent to seal the first game .
keys has had a quick word with the umpire - maybe she needs the trainer ? she shows no weakness in advancing into a 30-0 lead but after netting for 30-30 , she grimaces and clutches her left thigh . she 's really struggling and venus seals the double break . this is n't looking good ...
serena williams wins the us open !
it 's a nervy start from the chinese player as she opens with a double fault . a couple of good ground strokes help get back in to the game , but azarenka steps it up , moving in to the net for an aggressive volley before a long ball from li hands the belarusian the first game .
lisicki makes a brilliant return to take the opening point of the match , before a big serve from the estonian levels the scores . kanepi follows it up with a double fault . a strong forehand allows kanepi to edge ahead , but she gets caught out while looking to volley , giving the german the chance to lob the ball over her and bring up deuce . on the fourth deuce of the game , lisicki makes a stunning forehand down the sideline to bring up the first break point of the match , and she gets it with kanepi smashing her forehand into the net . both players using a great variety of shots early in this match .
the serve was there to be hit , but vesnina slams the ball into the net ! azarenka has taken a bit off the serve in order to , well , get it in play . the defending champ goes on to close out the game .
first blood in the second goes to li . that was a show of nerves from zakopalova , who netted at exactly the wrong time .
kuznetsova starts the game well , winning the first two points with some well-placed serves , but a stunning return from williams gets her back into the game . the russian tries a drop shot , but the top seed sees it coming , and rushes into the net to volley the ball back into the court , but some solid serves allow kuznetsova to take her first game of the set .
again kvitova starts well as bouchard fires a forehand long for 0-15 , before netting to hand kvitova 0-30. bouchard moves onto the board in the next point when kvitova nets from the baseline , but bouchard then fails to return for 15-40. the canadian starves off the first break point , but kvitova takes the second when bouchard slices long of the baseline .
the early danger signs are there when williams eases into a 0-30 lead but bacsinszky remains composed to get to deuce . she then finds her way to game point before williams makes a glaring forehand error to allow the swiss to get on the board .
stephens makes the breakthrough at the third attempt . robson was on the back foot in the rally and was clinging on . she eventually put too much into a forehand to cede the early ground .
the difference in this set is that doi is coming out on top in the longer rallies . that happens once more at 15-15 , before kvitova throws in a double fault to hand her opponent two break points , which she takes when the czech player goes wide .
a welcome love game for the former finalist , putting nice variety behind a noticeably different service action . stephens looked happy to stay defensive at the baseline in that game , perhaps just taking her foot of the pedal after making her opening hold .
after both players trade errors , muguruza explodes into life to put away a second-serve return for 15-30. another imposing point see her drill home a drive volley for two break points before a phenomenal defensive lob is followed by a winner off the ground . is that the decisive game of the set and match ?
four points in a row for radwanska see her hold serve . she wins the game as he first serve is called out and she challenges , with hawkeye saying that it did just catch the line . over to you , sabine .
robson continues to hit the ball cleanly as she holds to 30 .
pleasant start for the belgian as she holds comfortably thanks to some first serves and robson errors .
jankovic challenges the ivanovic serve well , but it 's looking strong so far and she holds to 30 .
sharapova makes her 14th and 15th unforced errors of the match in game seven . nevertheless , she manages to hold serve to 30 , sealing the game with her first ace .
makarova gets a point back but another booming serve from sharapova takes her to the first set . no-one so far has been able to deal with her power , i ca n't see the second set lasting long .
a seventh ace and then a beautiful backhand helps sharapova finally hold .
game on ! jankovic keeps plugging away and gets her rewards in the form of a break as radwanska lobs the ball long . it 's vitally important she holds her own service now .
safarova is facing problems at 0-30 but she responds with a forehand winner from inside the court . however , a second serve is given the treatment by williams to bring up two break points . wowzers - serena picks a first serve and fires the return cross-court into the corner . stunning hitting .
much more like it under pressure from the brit , serving a superb ace at break-point down . a measured forehand down the line is followed by some stern baseline defence , securing a hold the 19-year-old desperately needed .
robson gets a break back . she was far more proactive in that game , and cut down on the errors that have plagued her early in this set . if she can hold now then she 's back within touching distance .
like yesterday , it has taken vinci 's variety some time to take effect but now it has , she looks the better of the two players . a couple of winners help her to three game points but pennetta replies with a blistering return . she follows that with a volley on the stretch , before vinci slices a backhand into the net . has the tide turned ? nope , not quite . vinci pulls through after pennetta goes long and she has guaranteed herself a tie-break .
it 's four games in a row for robson ! she 's the one with the momentum .
game , set & match ! muguruza produces two great winners , first on the backhand and then on the service to hold a 30-15 lead . the youngster then puts real power into her shot to force bacsinszky into backhand error , which leaves the spaniard with two match points . muguruza delivers at the second time of asking when her bullet of a backhand has far too much for bacsinszky .
this set is getting away from the 18-year-old now . it was a strange point , with both players looping the ball onto the baseline . however , the american dispatched another forehand cross court to get the double break .
she gets the second serve back this time though and lisicki then nets her backhand . she 's lost the last three games on the spin .
a dominant game of tennis from ivanovic , who takes the break with a powerful forehand that jankovic could n't return .
this is just phenomenal serving from williams , who hits three aces and a vicious winner . the american looks destined to face maria sharapova on thursday , unless azarenka can find a miracle .
daniilidou is having minor success at the net - certainly more than from the baseline . but azarenka again breaks comfortably with another double fault to finish the game off .
what a response to losing a monstrous opening rally . from 15-0 down , sharapova rallies to win the game and won it with a lovely drop shot that forced jankovic to the net , which left sharapova on hand to hammer the backhand into space .
radwanska responds nicely with a good net point but errani then shows her how that is done as well with a forehand winner . that sets up two break point but she only needs one - radwanska nets from the baseline with a backhand . errani is two away from the semi-finals .
set sharapova : the russian holds to 15 to take the opening set inside 28 minutes .
williams is frustrated in the first point of the game as she is faced with an open court , but decides too late to come into the net to volley and ends up firing her smash long . a couple of long balls from garcia allow the top seed to edge in front , but the american mis-judges her backhand and catches the net to bring up deuce . two big serves are too much for garcia to return though , and williams escapes from a tricky service game at the start of this second set .
break back ! radwanska takes her fourth chance by slicing to the net and lisicki is unable to make her lob dip in . back on serve , what drama !
a probably decisive break for radwanska there , who wins with a lob that pironkova throws her racquet at - but in vain . the trainer is back . that 's got to be the nasty part of her job , working on feet .
unfortunately our live pictures from court one are slightly late to resume , but kvitova has the vital break in the very first game back . makarvoa was slow to adjust and got punished to the full , dropping her first service game of the match .
li fights back from 30-0 down to earn a break point , but a sensational cross-court forehand from the belarusian takes the game to deuce . the sixth seed seems to mis-read a slow serve from azarenka , and she goes on to take the game . it feels like a long time since the last game finished !
kvitova continues to make errors on her own serve , allowing pennetta to take the game to 30-30. she comes inside the baseline looking to replicate the forehands that won her the previous game , but misses the baseline to bring up another break point for pennetta , but it 's swiftly saved with an ace . the fifth seed finds her forehand to get advantage , but double faults on the next point to keep the italian in the game . kvitova finds her focus though , following up a forehand winner with a tidy backhand down the line to hold serve .
sharapova breaks ! serving with the sun in her eyes , knapp falters as sharapova breaks to 40 .
kerber has definitely dropped her levels in the last 20 minutes or so . she was n't playing that great before that , really . that has coincided with venus getting slightly better .
serena holds in her opening service game .
venus holds . the players have now been on court over two hours .
williams is motoring now , as an azarenka unforced error and a big serve puts her 30-0 up . the belarus star thinks she 's won the next point with a deadly passing shot , but williams sticks out a long arm to tip a volley over the net . another ace gives her a commanding lead , and she 's just three games away from the last four .
kvitova serves up her 11th double fault , but manages to save a break point to take the first game of the third set .
a hold to love for kuznetsova . pressure on the wozniacki serve now .
watson begins the opening point well , forcing keys to net , and two strong first serves see her move into a 40-0 advantage . wow , that 's superb from watson , who ends the game with an ace . talk about making a statement .
as i said , lisicki appeared to have given up on that set before she even began that service game . another loose backhand at 30-40 gifts radwanska the set and also the advantage of serving first in the decider .
azarenka is looking for another break as halep makes a double fault , handing her opponent the lead , but a volley from the belarusian goes long , before the second seed makes a stunning forehand followed by an ace . it 's a confident finish to the game from the romanian .
williams looks in complete control as she sends sharapova running all around the court , making her opponent stretch for every shot . the result is a series of mistakes from the russian and a comfortable hold for the world number one .
it 's difficult to see sharapova getting the break back with williams serving like she is at the moment , as the world number one fires two aces past the russian on her way to a hold to love . sharapova must hold serve to stay in the match .
morita backs up her break with a hold of serve , though it was n't without a spot of bother . she has williams at 40-0 , but dropped two points before closing out .
break : sharapova secures consecutive breaks to love as her opponent plunders another baseline forehand low into the net . the russian will now serve for the set .
break back ! the 12th seed is back on level terms and now we 're really going to see what bouchard is made of .
cornet is still frustrated by the previous game and is letting it get to her . her lack of focus results in a number of mistakes but she manages to hold on .
maybe i spoke too soon . vinci catches the line with a return to move to 0-30 , before doing the same , this time with more pop , on the next point to create another three break points . williams , somewhat inevitably , saves the first with an ace , as she does with the second . unreal . can she save the third ? she ca n't ! a backhand goes wide and the italian breaks !
muguruza comes up with strong work on both the fore and the backhand and she soon takes a 40-0 lead following a wonderful point won on the volley that sends bacsinszky running in the wrong direction . bacsinszky is given a route back into the game with a standout winner on the backhand , but eventually loses out to muguruza who ends things by forcing her competitor into another error .
vinci does not let up under pressure as we seemingly head towards a tiebreak . the italian breezes through to 3-3 with very little resistance on her opponent 's end .
danger signs for williams at 0-15 , but azarenka ca n't take advantage , and she sends a second serve return long of the baseline . she keeps herself in the game though , forcing williams to frame the ball for 30-30. the american moves to game point , but concedes the softest of double faults . that 's pure guts from williams . after a foot-fault is called after an ace , she responds with a big forehand winner . what a drop shot ! azarenka slices the ball from the back of the court which drops inches over the net . wow , this match is getting good . two more winners paint the lines , but williams holds firm to hold with an ace .
lisicki plays well from the back of the court , but kanepi is able to defend well , with the game heading the deuce . a long forehand from the estonian gives the 23rd seed advantage . she misses her first serve , but tries a risky second serve , and gets an ace .
sharapova starts the game with another double fault , but she regains her composure to put together four successive points to reduce the deficit to one .
that 's was a good , encouraging , recovery from cibulkova , who forces li long again for game point . but she then nets to take us to deuce in the opening game and li goes wide with a backhand on her first break point . li gets break point number two with a big backhand down the line and the game ends on a double fault ... not the best start for cibulkova .
a quite incredible implosion from kvitova shows no sign of letting up , with yet another double fault contributing to makarova 's fourth successive break of serve . full credit to the russia , she has maximised her chances and now must be favourite to progress tonight .
power from vinci this time as she returns mladenovic 's serve back down the line to open the scores , but france 's hopeful comes back into it when vinci falls flat on her forehand . mladenovic goes ahead with an ace that requires a challenge , only for the youngster to shoot herself in the foot with a double fault . vinci can not return from deep next up , leaving mladenovic to close out an important hold when another italian return finds the net .
a huge moment in the game as radwanska breaks . radwanska hits back at keys with a forehand winner and the pressure looks to tell on the 20-year-old as she double faults to hand the pole a 30-0 lead . the 26-year-old wastes her momentum with a loose forehand , but then plays the point of her match to earn two break points as she somehow lunges to lob the american at the net despite her powerful backhand , and then wins the point with a delicate slice across court . radwanska has keys on the back foot for the first break , but the american capitalises on a mistake with an overhead smash to save one point . however , keys commits a forehand error to hand the break to the pole . a huge moment in the game and keys had looked so composed on her serve before that game .
wozniacki catches a lovely backhand down the line to get to 40-30. kuznetsova then pushes long with a forehand and the dane gets the first game on the board on the second set .
despite doing her best to throw it away by losing the first two points , kerber does hold and makarova gets her second chance to serve for the set .
right on cue , kirilenko finds two much-needed first serves and holds to level the opening set .
neither player able to hold serve at the moment . azarenka defends brilliantly before stephens goes long and is broken for the sixth time in the match . now azarenka will serve for a place in the final .
azarenka holds to win her fourth game in a rwo . it 's looking good for the world number one at the moment . are we going into a third set ? remember , neither has lost a three-set match this year .
whereas the opening game of set one saw hantuchova broken to love , set two kicks off with a love service hold for the slovakian . azarenka looks bemused , having made three unforced backhand errors in the game .
halep has second thoughts about a challenge when azarenka finds the line with an unstoppable forehand , and hopes of a response from the belarusian are raised when she watches her rival send a forehand of her own wide . the second seed hits back with a winner before azarenka finds the net to make it 30-30. a couple of superb ground strokes from halep hit the perfect length and azarenka is unable to keep her response from drifting long . however , a second serve is just far too inviting for azarenka to turn down as she delivers a return winner to get to deuce . halep edges ahead when her fastest serve of the match is sent back at the net . azarenka gets another second serve to attack , but she hits the backhand wide and halep is one game away from the semi-finals .
despite having five chances to break ivanovic still ca n't find a way to make it count as radwanska survives to earn a vital hold and stay firmly in control of the second set .
it looks like missing out on the break in the previous game has effected li , as she serves her first double fault of the match , immediately followed by a second , to give azarenka two break points . she wastes the first with a wide shot , and hits the net on the next , allowing li back in to the game at deuce . the misses seem to lift li , who takes advantage with a superb shot down the sideline , following up with another to take the game . both players are having hot and cold spells at the minute .
clijsters gained a mini-break at 3-2 but that 's just been extinguished by some fabulous angles from robson , she 's some player .
guess what ? break ! i do n't think either player wants to win this set . jelena now serving for a 5-4 lead .
robson produces unforced errors on four straight points to allow kirilenko to get off the mark with a hold to love .
you feel as though bacsinszky needs to break straight back to have a chance in this match but serena is striking the ball as cleanly as she has all match and the swiss has no answer . she holds to 15 thanks to a backhand winner into the open court and she is closing in on a place in the final .
after an early ace , robson struggles to find her first serve . it does n't matter too much though as some big forehands prove too much for wozniacki , before the british number one takes the game with an unreturned serve .
comfortable hold to love for ivanovic and it 's now over to bouchard to hold her nerve and serve out the set .
barty takes the first point , but after conceding that lead with a double fault , williams drills a forehand down the line for 15-30. that soon becomes 15-40 when barty hooks a backhand wide of the mark , and williams seals the first break of the match with a well-timed drop-volley at the net .
williams nets in the first point to hand her opponent 0-15 , before clipping one wide for 0-30. williams then double-faults to hand wozniacki 0-40 , but responds with an ace for 15-40. wozniacki does break in the next point , however , when williams double-faults once more .
it 's important that cibulkova finds a way to hold in this game but despite moving 30-15 ahead , serena 's power is on show again as she leathers a forehand return into the opposite corner of the court . cibulkova then goes long from the baseline to concede the double break and it 's one-way traffic on the rod laver arena .
williams delivers a perfect forehand winner , before seeing muguruza draw level . the second serve looks vulnerable again as williams gets her rival moving with a backhand down the line , and the spaniard ca n't find the target with a return . it 's two break points when muguruza sends a forehand into the stands . williams comes to the net , but the second volley finds the net . 30-40. the first serve at the body puts williams into an awkward position , and she goes wide with the return . a scream follows when the next return drifts wide , too . muguruza finds advantage twice , but she gifts williams another break point . it 's wasted again as a backhand strikes the net ! muguruza certainly is n't playing as well , but she holds , and that 's all that matters in the decider .
game , set and match sharapova ! what a turnaround ! sharapova is unstoppable in the latter stages of the final set to advance into the last four as she looks to defend her crown . having been battered in the opening set , sharapova displayed her talent to roar back with some sensational tennis .
williams makes a couple of unforced errors , finding the net twice , to help kuznetsova to a 40-15 lead , and the russian wins the opening game with a brilliants forehand to the corner of the court . whatever treatment she had seems to have worked .
kvitova has pressed the self destruct button to drop the second set with a dropped game to love . makarova has made very few mistakes in a run of six successive games , bringing this match level at a set apiece .
break back ! ivanovic hangs in there ! she saves two match points and must now hold serve to make sure it was n't all in vain .
she hits out with a backhand on the third though and azarenka will now serve for the match .
now , now . two break points for the german .
she 's taken all the way to deuce , but radwanska eventually takes the first set . if they 're both honest , i do n't think either player will be too happy with their performances so far . a lot of unforced errors have been committed .
wow , that was quick . azarenka serves out convincingly to go 2-1 in front . you feel stosur has to hold this one or it could be all over .
she knocked plenty of times , but stosur eventually slammed the door in robson 's face . a really good hold for the australian . over to you robbo ...
routine again from williams , who , after reaching 30-0 , outlasts barty from the back of the court , and the game is sealed with another unreturned first serve .
there is n't much difference between the two , but serena is showing the experience of a champion . she looks decisive off both sides , and the american is soon into a 30-0 lead , partly down to a backhand winner down the line . it 's three set points after azarenka floats a return long , and she wastes no time in taking the first , with the belorussian dragging a forehand wide .
hantuchova breaks : more carrying on from azarenka ... the world number two is beaten at the net by a superb forehand pass as hantuchova edges 30-40 ahead . after reacting by releasing the most unpleasant scream , the belarusian then double faults .
that 's much better from watson , who follows a forehand winner with an ace out wide . keys then goes long on a return off a second serve , and watson ensures that she remains competitive in this set when the american nets from the baseline .
a good start from azarenka as she wins her opening service game without much trouble .
serena is in agony here , but she 's hanging on in there . gutsy stuff to hold again , surely she ca n't win this match ?
wozniacki holds serve .
this time ivanovic attacks the jankovic serve to earn a couple of break points . the first is saved with a delicious backhand down the line and the second goes when ivanovic goes long from the baseline . she earns another with a fearsome forehand return and earns the first break of the match .
li stays in touch with a hold to 15 , finishing the game off with a rare serve-and-volley .
that is massive for lisicki as she does manage to hold after being 0-40 down . she has all the momentum , can she break williams again ? she 's done it the last two times .
li makes no mistake with her second set point , putting radwanska on the defensive and finally finishing with the pole netting .
break nervy start from bouchard as she finds the net with her first return , while her second is overhit and bounces out to hand sharapova a 30-0 lead . the 20-year-old then double faults to give the number two seed three break points before an error from the russian gets bouchard on the board . however , the canadian miscues her backhand to hand sharapova a break of serve in the first game .
robson challenges a call but clijsters 's backhand was in and we 're back on serve .
knapp claims an important hold in game one of set two . the italian finds four first serves in six attempts . she wins all four points behind those first serves , losing the other two , as she holds to 30 .
kvitova 's returning game really has been excellent at the start of this first set , and a stunning forehand from the fifth seed gives her two break points . she wastes the first with a sloppy backhand , but pennetta hands her the game on the next point with a double fault .
williams looks back to her best , moving freely around the court to take a 40-15 lead , giving herself two break points . the top seed takes the game with a brilliant forehand to the sideline .
no nerves whatsover from kerber as she holds to love .
robson moved 2-0 ahead but has been pegged back by clijsters .
williams starts with a sensational ace to move 15-0 ahead , before wozniacki nets for 30-0. another ace brings 40-0 , before williams holds when wozniacki hits long of the baseline .
better tennis from makarova as she wins the first point of the game with a solid serve , but sharapova battles back with a strong forehand which the 10th seed ca n't return . makarova 's error-laden performance continues as she goes long with her forehand again , but sharapova hands her life with a loose shot into the net . however , the 26-year-old gives her opponent a gift with another loose shot and the 2008 champion seizes her opportunity to break with a vicious backhand into the corner . sharapova claims her second break of the second , which could be enough to secure the victory .
outstanding from jankovic as she takes two fantastic final points to edge out sharapova from serve in the first set .
robson serves well to take her first game of the final set , including a fantastic ace along the centre line . she 'll need to break kvitova as soon as possible to get back in this set , but she 's not finished yet .
it looks like muguruza has found the line , and she appears to celebrate , but the point goes to williams . the spaniard responds impressively to boss the next couple of rallies , and her third ace makes it 40-15. she secures the hold with a superb forehand winner . much better from the 24th seed .
quick pressure applied on the cetkovska serve , with wozniacki fighting hard to level at 30-30. a stray forehand from the dane helps her opponent edge ahead , with a strong point finished off at the net to keep this first set on serve in the early going . an encouraging start for the czech , who thankfully does not appear to be favouring her left knee so far .
halep goes shot-for-shot with her rival from the baseline and , surprisingly , beats her for power to get to 15-15 early in the game . a couple of superb strokes from azarenka move her back ahead as she sends halep wide before going in the opposite direction with the winner . halep is then too good with the return of a second serve , and the angle of the follow-up forehand is perfect as she pulls level again . a fine rally brings the best out of both players , but halep blinks first by going wide with a forehand on the stretch . halep hits back with some brilliant forehands and a winner is followed by a big fist pump from the romanian . azarenka delivers a double fault at the worst possible time to hand break point to halep , who wastes the opportunity by sending a miscued backhand wide . an unforced error brings up a second break point and halep capitalises when azarenka finishes a long rally by going with wide with the backhand . huge moment in the match . can halep hold her nerve ?
routine hold from azarenka to start the second set . one mistake by going long with a backhand , but otherwise very little stephens resistance .
maybe a few nerves creeping in for williams . kirilenko takes the game to deuce , before williams finds a big serve to get advantage , but then has her first double fault of the match . she responds well with her first ace of the set .
vandeweghe dictates the longest rally of the match so far with a series of well-timed backhands , before coming into the net to wrap it up with a volley . the russian gets involved in the net herself on the next point though to level the game . sharapova manages to edge ahead as the american slices a return wide , before hitting the ball into the net on the next point to keep the early stages of this set on serve .
li moves brilliantly behind the baseline , firing a forehand past her opponent . she comes into the net for an overhead volley , but she takes the ball to early and smashes the ball well wide . her forehand clips the net , but still manages to land on the sideline and she takes the game when vinci forces the ball wide .
the end looks near for doi . she dumps a baseline shot into the net , and although a superb lob reduces the deficit to 15-30 , she shows too much aggression and make another error . she saves the first break point , but kvitova steps in to convert a forehand to seal the break to move into a 4-0 lead .
at 15-15 , williams gets lucky with a net cord to get to 30-15 , before vinci nets a return off a well-direct first serve . the game is sealed with a serve down the middle and she is back on track .
a love game for ivanovic here , and she 's looking more than comfortable on serve . can jankovic muster anything to haul herself back in this match ?
at 15-15 , vinci produces one of her biggest serves of the match to force serena to go long . where has that been all match ? however , williams turns thing around to bring up a break point , but the american squanders it , miscuing a relatively easy forehand . vinci holds with some aggressive play of her own and she is one away from taking this match into a decider . i did n't think i would be writing that .
unforced errors cost robson , as she finds the net on more than one occasion to hand the break straight back to kvitova .
it 's a comfortable first service game for the world number 46. her first two serves are returned wide by cirstea , before watson secures the first ace of the match . the brit has a powerful serve , and it looks like it could cause the romanian some problems on the return .
there 's so much pressure on vinci to make her first serve because she knows what is coming if she does n't . vinci creates three game points , but the problems start when she sees the line . williams attacks and gets back to 40-30 , but she dumps a forehand into the net to allow her opponent to restore parity . good hold .
good start to the game for the 19-year-old as she powers a backhand past serena to take the lead , while the number one seed slams her next stroke into the net . the 33-year-old battles back with a strong forehand down the line , and then an ace to tie the scores . however , a loose forehand to the back of the court drops out and then serena slams a backhand into the net to hand keys a break in the first game .
it 's a welcome hold for jankovic , but one she was made to work hard for again . radwanska will now serve for the set .
a much , much better service game for keys . she was on top from the start and forced the error from radwanska to take it . perhaps this one will go to a tie-break - the last set was the same , but the pole took a late break .
however , the pole responds and wraps up her service game with a marvellous drop shot that keys can not dream of reaching .
halep is making some brilliant returns , making a couple of flawless forehand winners to give herself a break point , but a change up in pace on the serve from azarenka takes the game to deuce . the world number two picks out the sideline with another well-struck forehand to give herself another chance though , but this time slices her backhand into the net . a couple more chances for halep to get the break come and go before a fifth break point is converted by the romanian , with azarenka forcing her forehand just long .
and break she does as vika misfires with a forehand . one thing ivanovic is doing very well at the moment is looping the ball with less pace when she 's on the defensive , making it harder for azarenka to move her out of position quickly .
just as i begin to doubt makarova 's chances it all goes horribly wrong for kvitova on serve . two successive double faults start the problems , with the russian attacking a sloppy second serve to earn a break to love . that came completely out of the blue , but can that be the start of a revival in the second set .
it 's errani 's turn for a delightful lob as she clips the line with radwanska advancing . radwanska is now just playing baseline , accurate tennis and at the moment it 's working . that said , errani comes to the net to win an inside-out forehand to bring us to deuce , and takes the game when radwanska slaps long ! errani will serve for the match .
initially brilliant from radwanska . she plops two smashes straight at errani , but wins the point on a very difficult stretching backhand lob at the net . however , some poor shot selection gives errani two break points . the first is saved with a fine forehand winner at the net , but she nets herself the point later and we 're suddenly back with serve .
the pole forces lisicki to serve out the set by holding to 30. lisicki 's first serve is going in 68 % of the time and if she keeps that up then it 'll be hard for radwanska to break . lisicki has lost just one of the 15 points when she 's got her first serve in .
solid start from keys as she races into a 40-0 lead due to accuracy off her serve which puts the pole under pressure . an unforced error hands the pole a point and a way back into the game , but she then goes wide with a volley at the net to give the first game to the 20-year-old .
big hold for azarenka , who secures her second service game with a precise ace that skids off the t .
a couple of tame second serves from wozniacki are quickly punished as falls 15-40 behind , with a forehand winner crashing off the net . early chance here for the czech qualifier with two break points and she takes advantage quickly , showing aggression to finish a relatively easy point with power at the baseline .
robson sinks to her knees as she misses a simple backhand , still on serve in the breaker .
she 's was starting to look a bit more confident , li . she looks to be controlling that service game , but a fightback from her opponent gets it back to deuce . then zakopalova gains advantage but a great li forehand forces her into the error and then finally wraps up the hold . something has to give soon and it looks more likely to come from li .
halep continues to struggle as he misses the court on a simple forehand with the russian again on the back foot . better tennis from the third seed as he hits a deep backhand onto the feet of makarova who ca n't return it , while her forehand clicks into gear with a rapid return right down the line . halep earns two break points with another fine shot on her backhand , but a solid serve and a miscue from the romanian brings deuce . however , halep earns a break back with a solid strike and an error from makarova on her forehand .
break back ! despite the break , cornet looks like she has no confidence , and williams cashes in , placing the ball all around the court and leveling the set .
game and set sharapova ! the champion is level . sharapova storms to a 40-0 lead and has three set points to use up . she levels up the match after jankovic 's return hits the net . we 'll have one final serve in this quarter-final clash .
doi finally gets a bit of luck , when the ball strikes the top of the net and drops over . her opponent then goes long twice in succession to hand doi three game points , before the japanese player concedes a double fault . a return winner takes kvitova to 40-30 , but doi responds with her first ace of the match to remain in the set .
the support for sharapova has increased - the fans do n't want to see this end early and i do n't blame them . the russian goes 0-15 ahead but serena responds with three big first serves . sharapova bursts into life with a backhand return winner but another huge delivery from the american seals the game .
first one saved .
for a third game in a row on kvitova 's serve , pennetta brings up a break point , hitting a string of steady shots from the baseline , eventually forcing a long forehand from her opponent . however , kvitova survives as a low backhand from the italian fails to clear the net . pennetta finds the net again on the next point , before a long return allows the czech to hold serve . kvitova certainly has n't played her best tennis in her first three service games , but she 's doing just enough to stay with her opponent .
just as the start of the last set , kerber is not offering much resistance to the makarova serve . she gets a return in but slices into the net when advancing , a really poor shot .
break back ! she 's got it , again dominating radwanska from the baseline . aggy loves throwing up a high ball to challenge her opponent but again li is confident enough to drive-volley the ball out of the air for a winner and we 're back on serve in the second .
a baseline from bacsinszky tells williams that she has settled into this match , but at 30-15 , she gets over ambitious with a drop shot and the world number one is back to 30-30. she holds her nerve though as she crushes a forehand winner and an ace to take the game .
li does throw it away and the slovakian breaks right back to take is into a breaker . this could go either way , but the momentum i feel is with cibulkova .
two stunning winners take muguruza to 15-30 , but she goes for too much on the next return which goes long . radwanska holds firm to take the next two points to hold , and this is beginning to feel like a different match . how will muguruza cope with having to retreat for the first time in the match ?
they 're heavy hitters these two and we 're still on serve as clijsters holds .
i get the impression that williams is slightly perturbed . she powers a backhand winner past azarenka , before her opponets commits her fifth double fault . a second serve barely reaches williams , and the american gives it the treatment to bring up three break points . azarenka survives a hawkeye challenge by a millimetre and she is soon back at 30-40 after williams shanks a backhand . williams has the break though , after azarenka disappointingly dumps a shot into the net ! williams will return to serve for the championship for a second time .
some big returns from li bring up three break points against azarenka 's serve . the sixth seed sends a backhand long , before sealing the break with a superb backhand down the sideline , which left azarenka rooted to the spot .
another very , very close wide call goes against sharapova . makarova holds serve , but only because of those three near misses . sharapova will serve for the match .
erakovic needs to take a step back , and compose herself . she 's under a barrage from robson right now . she edges 30-0 ahead , but a forehand error and a double fault bring robson back to 30-30. erakovic 's forehand has gone missing , and another goes long for break point to robson . what a reply though , a super ace out wide and we are at deuce . she ca n't hold off robson 's power though , who forces erakovic into two more mistakes , and she takes the initiative in the set .
lisicki saves the first by tracking down radwanska 's volley before aggie manages to hold by hitting a first serve that lisicki returns long . radwanska now one game away from her second-straight wimbledon final .
almost 10 minutes that game took . serena comes through with two mighty serves and this match is on course to be a cracker .
stephens replies in kind with two easy points to consolidate the break . she 's in front early in this match !
game , set & match ! serving for a place in the semis , vinci starts strongly with a serve that forces a tame return from mladenovic . it 's soon 30-0 when the frenchwoman crunches another into the net . some slight resistance is offered by the youngster at 30-15 , who follows it up with something bigger deep that does for vinci . mladenovic comes up short by pumping her next return wide , only to respond with a massive forehand winner . a predictable error at the vital moment from mladenovic gives vinci another chance to close the game , which eventually happens as the french player turns a return into the net . vinci is through ...
azarenka comes into the net to try to get herself going in this set , but double faults on the following point . she plays an excellent backhand on the next point , which the stretching second seed gets her racquet to , but ca n't get it back in play , while halep misses her next return to give azarenka the game . the romanian will serve for the set next though .
again the czech goes wide on break point , but li does n't want to capitalise when she has her own advantage and skews a shot into the stands . however , she finally finishes it with an ace .
muguruza has started this final brilliantly , but she is frustrated with herself having missed a second-serve return to move to 0-40. serena fires back to reach 30-30 before another huge serve earns her game point . the hold is complete when the spaniard goes for too much with a return .
out of nowhere , williams drops to 0-30 after two unforced errors before she remains competitive with an ace down the middle . bacsinszky feels hard done by when she 's on the wrong end of a questionable line call , but she shakes it over to drill a backhand winner down the line to earn a break point . williams saves it , as well as denying bacsinszky on four more occasions , but the swiss is unnerved and after middling a backhand return , she benefits from a mistake from williams to break through .
robson ca n't do anything about the first two points , but a wild forehand from her opponent gives her an opening to get into the game . however , the door is slammed firmly shut with an ace , before robson puts too much fizz on a return .
keys starts well with a well worked winner as she manoeuvres williams across the court before firing a forehand into the corner . the duo exchange errors on the next two points , but williams ups the ante to take a game point with an outstanding lob to the back of the court . the 19-year-old shows her spirit with a powerful backhand down the line , but a couple of loose strokes from keys hand the game to the world number one .
she only needs one of them as an error from radwanska gives up her service game to love . the last time that happened she broke right back , though . as it stands errani is racing to the semis .
sharapova is looking really sharp on the return at the start of this game , coming inside the baseline to take the ball early , clinching the opening couple of points . a long forehand from vandeweghe gives the russian a break point , and she takes the game when a lengthy exchange from the baseline results in the american firing her backhand into the net .
sharapova 's excellent service game in the match continues with the first point as he nails her shot down the 't ' , while she then works bouchard around the court to produce an error , and then a winner with her backhand into the corner . the 20-year-old shows some fight as sharapova finds the net and finds a winner on her forehand . however , the russian seals the set as bouchard commits an unforced error into the net .
a very big hold here for williams . she fends off that break point to tie up this final set . more importantly , she 's starting to find some power with her serve and net shots .
pennetta shakes off the disappointment of the previous game with a winner , but halep is relentless right now and crushes a forehand winner and serve out wide to reach two game points . the game is sealed with a stunning backhand winner down the line which is celebrated with a fist pump . she 's starting to look like the second best player in the world .
watson is 0-30 up but does n't attack the second serve well enough on the next point . watson gets a break point with a fine pass at the feet of her opponent that is returned into the net but goes wide returning a second serve . she had to to better there . after a series of deuces radwanska eventually manages to hold with an unbelievable forehand winner .
after the opening two points are shared , pennetta ups the ante off the ground but with mixed results with her forehand . at 30-30 , vinci crushes a forehand winner into the corner for game point and it 's taken when pennetta makes the unforced error .
despite that , the champion takes the game and requires just one more now for a place in the semi-finals .
the tide has certainly turned . muguruza is struggling to cause the same problems for williams , who shows that her serve is improving by firing down a couple of aces . it 's a comfortable hold , and that 's exactly what the american needs now .
mladenovic opens up the second set , only to be undone by great placement from the italian at 15-15. the frenchwoman responds with a crunching forehand across the court that has vinci scrambling , although a poor follow up wide down the line draws vinci back level . mladenovic holds her nerve , however , after a backhand winner and a cheap return from her opponent .
vinci takes the opening point , but a double fault and a winner from williams sees the american reach 15-30. the world number one then steps into a second-serve return and vinci has no answer . it 's two break points to williams , but she misses out on the first , dumping a return into the net . should have made it . she converts the second , though , quite brilliantly . a tense point ends with serena drilling a drive volley behind her opponent and she has the break .
it 's important here for venus to not offer any more encouragement to her opponent but when an unforced error hands keys 0-30 , the danger signs are there for the 18th seed . she finds a way to fight back , though , through a mixture of solid first serves and keys only finding the net .
another groundstroke into the net from lisicki and that 's a dream start for bartoli . she takes the opening set in just half an hour .
keys has a fine start to the game with a solid forehand to the back of the court , but serena comes roaring back to produce the error from the 19-year-old . keys edges ahead again , only to lose the next two points in a row to stare down the barrel at match point . the serve to stay in the match is excellent from 19-year-old as she clips the line , but williams earns another with a ferocious backhand , which completely wrong foots her opponent . keys battles back with another exceptional ace down the middle of the court , but the number one seed finds a backhand winner again . the 19-year-old continues to refuse to face her fate as she saves match point five more times , before taking the game on an error from williams .
mladenovic turns the screw as she goes 40-15 up , but vinci battles back to 40-30. mladenovic finally takes the game , break set with a wonderful hook across the face of the court . can the young frenchwoman do this ? a third set might wear on that injury a little ...
knapp breaks back ! the italian hits a backhand winner and , after sharapova fails to convert three match points , we are all level again . incredible .
well , maybe not . the muguruza of old has returned , pummelling two huge winners to earn three break points . radwanska saves the first , but on the second , she sprays a forehand wide of the line .
a simple hold for azarenka puts the world number one back in front . who 's gon na crack first ?
azarenka saves a break back point before hitting a rare forehand winner to hold . she 's just a game away now . serena serving to stay in this final .
she 's starting to find her rhythm ! sharapova is hitting some fabulous hits in this game and seems to be finding the right side of the line . a powerful winner earns her a break point , before forcing jankovic to find the net for 2-0 .
the deciding set continues with another comfortable hold as halep delights the crowd by clipping the line with a stunning backhand down the line . azarenka manages to punish a second serve with a powerful winner , but another backhand follows from the second seed as halep holds to 15 .
i make that kuznetsova 's most comfortable service game of the match . the pressure is now on azarenka to serve to stay in the set .
break back ! just as it looks like kvitova might be starting to take control of the match , the errors creep back in as she sends a forehand long before clattering a volley into the net , while a wayward forehand brings up three break points for pennetta , which the italian claims with an excellent backhand .
a first ace from robson up the middle , who has definitely worked hard on that service action in the last few months . kanepi then blasts a pair of forehands well past the baseline , allowing the brit to claim another comfortable hold .
sure enough , after the minor scare normal service is resumed . sharapova takes the game and is one away from another dominant victory .
kerber holds the opening game . a good start .
radwanska wins the game with her first point in a comfortable hold .
like the opening set , ivanovic has started off the more impressive of the two and the errors are beginning to come from safarova . she misses out on two game points before ivanovic earns a break point with a beautiful shot off the ground . that goes begging though , as does a second opening , and safarova comes through with the hold .
well it looked like errani was on top , but radwanska again turns it up for a game and breaks straight back . neither player is able to hold their serve at the moment and we could be heading for a breaker .
oh dear , this one could get away from ivanovic very , very quickly if she carries on like this . it 's a love-break for vika as the serb nets a short forehand .
the russian brings up the break point with a sizzling backhand before azarenka hits wide . the world number one is on real trouble now . staggering to think that 's she hit only the one winner so far .
quick hold for the world number one . she served up her sixth double fault in that game , but she gets it on the board .
two muguruza errors hand radwanska some breathing space at 30-0 , and the pole completes a much-needed love hold with a backhand volley and a smash .
just as williams was doing earlier , muguruza is dominating against the second serve . another powerful winner makes it 15-15 early in the game . williams hits back with an ace , before losing another point on the second serve . another ace follows , as does a williams error . deuce . incredibly , it 's muguruza who is taking charge in the longer rallies . williams struggles to deal with the power of muguruza 's ground strokes , and the spaniard has a break point . she wo n't stop there . williams , on the stretch , hits a forehand wide . muguruza has a double break .
robson holds to love . kirilenko looks powerless to stop the fired-up brit right now . one feels that if she fails to hang on to her serve in the upcoming game , her tournament could be over rather soon .
strong service from keys sees her establish a short lead , but she then fails on the return as radwanska draws level . keys pulls out an error again , only to respond with a standout forehand winner that sends her opponent the wrong way . radwanska battles back to setup her own break , which is reached when keys comes up short again , this time on her backhand as the ball flies into the net .
sharapova takes her all the way to deuce , but bartoli comes out on top . she 's now two games away from winning this match .
it 's an easy hold for kvitova . it 's one of the few games where the czech has been able to use her serve as a weapon . robson will now serve for the set again .
this time keys sees the radwanska drop shot coming , and gets across to find the pass across the court . she finishes the match with her second ace down the t .
the russian keeps her nerve - for once ! she holds to 30 and this energy-sapping contest continues . remember , there are no tie-breaks at the australian open , so this one could last a while yet !
a well-directed serve out wide sets up the easy conversion for 30-0 before another cross-court backhand creates three game points . halep then fires a backhand out and that makes it 15 points in a row for the italian . that 's ridiculous for a grand slam semi .
the one-two behind her serve seems to be working well for serena when she reaches 30-0 but back comes safarova , who middles a return on the way to 30-30. what a response from williams though , who finds a big first serve before registering an ace out wide . she looks fired up for this .
what a thrilling finish to the match we could have on the card . this time it 's sharapova 's turn to dominate from serve as she takes a 40-0 lead . she 's seels the game with a wonderful shot down the baseline which jankovic can only guide off the court .
break and set ! all the focus is now on erakovic . will she hold her nerve ? two huge serves earn her the first two points , but robson hits successive returns back at her opponent for 30-30. huge point coming up . erakovic double faults ! set point for robson . another double fault ! unbelievable ! what a turnaround ...
once again radwanska weathers the storm and holds to keep her two-game advantage .
well , if all the games are as long as that one we 'll be here until the weekend . li saves two break points in that one and finally holds a 12-minute game with a couple of volleys .
li finds her strongest service game of the match so far , with some brilliantly-timed serves , backed up with some strong ground strokes . li finished with another stunning shot down the sideline , and is just one game away from the set , with azarenka yet to hold serve .
it 's more of the same from keys , who eases into a 40-0 lead with more venomous hitting . a forehand winner and huge first serve seals a love hold . you feel as though venus needs to hold in the next game or this match could run away from her .
kirilenko breaks ! the russian reminds us that this is not over yet , as well as just why she is ranked 10th in the world , as she breaks to deuce to reduce her second-set arrears to a single break of serve .
four games in a row now for makarova , what a dramatic turnaround from the russian after another composed game at the baseline . kvitova is just trying a little too hard to force those ferocious shots at the baseline and needs to regain touch by building points more slowly .
when you have just been dominated for the last 20 minutes of a set , what is the best way to respond ? by breaking your opponent 's serve at the start of a set . it looks as though vinci will do just that when a cross-court return winner brings up three break points , but the response from williams is unreal . a cross-court backhand winner saves the third of three break points before an ace , her fifth , registering 122mph helps complete the game . she looks supreme .
ivanovic holds without too much drama . for once in this match , both women seem to want to win their own serve .
azarenka brings up another set point with a controlled serve that williams hits wide , and this time , she takes it ! the american goes long and we are into a decider .
errani holds ! williams slices a pair of backhands into the net and the italian holds to deuce .
sharapova 's power comes to fore in the first point of the game as she works bouchard over to her backhand to force the miscue . the russian finds her forehand again with a drive down the line that the canadian ca n't return , but then makes another error by smashing her backhand into the net . however , two more excellent shots by the russian secure the game as bouchard has no answer for her play on serve at the moment .
sharapova 's serve has really been on point in this match and she continues to trouble bouchard as she fires her serve down the 't ' to win the first point . the 20-year-old hits back with a powerful return on sharapova 's second serve , but an error from the canadian and another top serve from the number two seed hand her control of the game . bouchard gets the game back to deuce , but sharapova is able to up the ante on her serve to claim the two points needed to win the game .
williams concedes the first point after placing a volley into the top of the net before vinci steps into court to put away a smash . another mistake from williams gifts vinci three game points and the american remains alive with a forehand winner . it 's the italian 's game though , after a net cord sends a shot from williams into the tramlines .
after working so hard to force deuce robson is unable to take advantage , sending successive forehands well wide at the baseline . kanepi is playing effective , defensive tennis and just forcing enough mistakes from her opponent to stay in charge of the match .
that 's a long overdue comfortable hold from stephens , i think the first of the match . she won it to 30 , but azarenka was never really in that game . the belarusian is visibly struggling here with injury . it ca n't happen again , surely ?
and just like that kanepi has a break back , with robson 's early joy on serve quickly forgotten after a lapse of concentration . this looks a very even encounter now .
keys steps into the court to put away a winner for her first point of the match , and that lead is extended when watson goes long . the brit hits back with a deep return off a second serve , but keys is displaying some huge power behind her first , reaching as high as 120mph . she has two game points , but watson replies with a superb cross-court forehand . keys ends the game with an ace to hold serve .
ivanovic keeps her fading hopes alive with an impressive hold , if only she had shown this attacking intent from the outset .
back to square one once more . jankovic was trying to put sharapova on her forehand for some odd reason and paid the price . sharapova takes the game with a wonderful winner down the line . 3-3
vinci retrieves the mini-break when pennetta goes wide , but she immediately gives it back with a forehand into the net . that looked the wrong shot . pennetta is not far away with a backhand down the line that would have given her three set points , but she has two to her name after a mistake from vinci . the first is taken with a serve out wide that is returned into the net and pennetta takes the opener .
williams opens the game with an ace , before kuznetsova sends back a long return . kuznetsova attacks the americans second serve , and forces a couple of errors from the world number one to give her yet another break point , and a double fault hands kuznetsova the game . the russian will now serve for the set .
oh , the irony ! serena hits a double fault and azarenka has an early break . do n't think anyone saw that coming .
lovely tennis on show as muguruza sends a forehand into the corner before taking the point with a simple volley . the williams camp do n't look pleased when a double fault is followed by muguruza firing a backhand winner past the world number one . it 's three break points to the spaniard . ace ! that 's one gone , but muguruza does n't need all three . a superb forehand down the line hands her the breakthrough .
to some extent , keys has nothing to lose now and she comes out with that mentality and breaks to love ! understandably , she 's going for everything , and on that occasion , it paid off .
really good hold in the end for sharapova , but once more she had to battle for it . a serve goes right into the corner and she follows it up with a backhand winner down the line to move three games away from the second round .
williams get onto the front foot for once in a longer rally , and muguruza ca n't return a powerful stroke down the line . the spaniard just needs to keep being aggressive . it 's clearly her best chance of winning this match . stunning return winners help , too , as muguruza delights the crowd to get on the board in the second set . williams has surely never been out-powered like this . it 's a good hold for williams though thanks to an ace . can muguruza continue to handle the pressure on serve ?
after the opening two points are shared , serena crunches a couple of returns back at her opponent and she has two opportunities to break back . she then lands a third , this time on the stretch , and she is understandably pumped .
makarova begins with a well worked point as he moves halep around the court before smashing a winner . a misguided forehand shows the pressure of the situation for the russian , but she responds with a strong serve down the 't ' . the 26-year-old earns two set points with a well executed backhand into the corner . halep continues to show fight , but the set is makarova 's as romanian finds the net once more .
muguruza struggles as she is unable to return , and her opponent then delivers two memorable winners on the backhand to set up a win in the fourth game . bacsinszky cements things by forcing muguruza to fire her return too far beyond the baseline .
a huge hold for stephens after saving a couple of break points . she 's one away from a place in the semi-finals now , can she break here ?
kvitova earns two break points after doi goes long from the baseline , but a fine one-two off her serve helps doi take the game to deuce . the 22-year-old gets on the board after she successfully challenges a call on her serve , before sealing the game when kvitova ca n't return .
more good rallies in the game , but radwanska takes the break and is really stepping it up after her medical timeout .
very good from robson . she 's pushed all the way , but holds out . a break here would be very nice .
lisicki 's back in the mood ! she opens with three unreturnable first serves before completing a love-hold with a crosscourt forehand that aggie can only dump into the net .
but azarenka has the break this time ! she gets the advantage before williams goes well long with a forehand . are we heading for a third set !
halep takes the opening point , but she ca n't take advantage , blasting a makable forehand into the net when having the opportunity to reach 15-30. she misses more chances but an error from pennetta gives her a look at break point . the ball sits up for her in the middle of the court but a backhand is hooked wide . big chance missed . the italian pulls through the game but halep looks to have a read of her serve .
it was tough going for radwanska , but a hold is a hold . nothing looks to be giving in the longest rally of the match , until the pole puts a touch more power on a forehand that forces her opponent to net . this set has gone the opposite way of the first .
wow . jankovic won 13 straight points before ivanovic pulled out a ferocious backhand winner at 40-0. she pulled it back to deuce and went on to break her compatriot from the unlikeliest of positions . third chance to serve for the set now ...
it took her to be 5-2 down to finally attack the russian 's serve , but kerber has got one of the breaks back . can she hold ?
good tennis from makarova as she forces the mistake from sharapova to claim the first point of the game . she follows that up with an excellent serve and a winner with a forehand to the opposite side of the court , while sharapova hands her three game points with a strike into the net . the 27-year-old does n't make it easy for her compatriot as she smashes a forehand winner into the corner and forces a miscue with a strike down the line , but an attempted winner from sharapova is wide which give makarova her first game in the second set .
powerful start from williams as she forces wozniacki to hit the net in the first point of the second set , but the american then hits a routine forehand long of the baseline for 15-15. williams comes to the net in the next point for 15-30 , before moving 15-40 ahead with help from the net . the break arrives when wozniacki nets once more .
azarenka looks to be well in control of the game , but a couple of good shots from li and some clumsy strokes from azarenka gives the chinese player break point . a double fault from azarenka gifts her opponent the break .
a shocker of a forehand from muguruza gives radwanska 0-30 , but three points in a row , the third a superb outswinging serve that catches the line , brings up game point for the spaniard , who completes the hold with a backhand conversion that hits the line .
azarenka holds , but hampton is hardly moving now .
the cross-court weapon of pennetta is proving to be a destructive weapon and on most occasions , halep has no answer . a love hold and all of a sudden , the onus is back on halep .
this time keys breaks late in the set ! it was poor from radwanska , who netted at 15-40 down , but a really good response from the american . last time radwanska broke right back and she 'll have to again now or we 're going to a decider .
cirstea forces her way into a couple of rallies and manages to smash a couple of winner past the world number one with some impressively quick footwork around the court . eventually , a long ball from williams gives her her first game of the match .
first set sharapova ! after failing to covert a single set point in the last game , sharapova races into a 40-0 lead , earning three more . an unforced forehand error sees another come and go , but the russian holds to 15 and clinches the opening set by winning the following point thanks to knapp 's horrible forehand into the net .
raswanska does all that she can do by holding serve relatively routinely . the ball is now in li 's court to win this . quite literally .
bouchard starts with an ace for 15-0 , before placing a forehand past kvitova to move 30-0 ahead . kvitova moves onto the board in the next point after bouchard fails to return a powerful forehand , before a whipped forehand levels it at 30-30. another wonderful forehand moves kvitova onto 30-40 , but deuce arrives after the czech clips a backhand just wide . eventually kvitova secures the first break of the match with another sensational forehand .
the first love service game from kanepi , who starts to get that powerful first serve working with variety and width . robson went for an ambitious backhand winner down the line in a gusty move , but saw her effort at 30-0 drift just beyond the sideline .
robson was in control of that point , but did n't take her chance to come in . in the end , stephens makes the error and it 's a crucial hold for robson .
a loose backhand from keys gets serena off to a positive start in the game , and the 19-year-old does it again with a miscued stroke . williams then double faults , but restores order with a charge to the net that forces a slice from her compatriot and she secures her first game with a powerful serve down the middle .
we 're going to a third set here ! after superb defensive tennis from stephens williams goes long to set up break point , and the youngster grabs it at the first time of asking - well , serena throws it away with a forehand into the net . stephens could well win this .
zakopalova 's turn to be solid with the ball , despite li getting the first point with a fine winner . i really ca n't predict the way this is going .
that might be it now ! two double faults in the game and mattek-sands has thrown that one away . the russian breaks at the perfect time and now just needs to hold for a place in the second round . that 's been easier said than done for her so far , of course .
pennetta records her first point of the contest with a baseline winner before vinci slices into the net to hand her opponent a 30-0 lead . it 's pennetta 's game though after another vinci slice fails to hit the target and the 26th seed is on the board .
perfect start from kvitova as she whips an ace past bouchard for 15-0 , before producing a brilliant forehand to move onto 30-0. bouchard gets on the board in the next point , however , when her opponent fires long . bouchard then hits the net as kvitova moves 40-15 ahead and the czech holds when the canadian fires long once more .
this is the williams you expect to see . she dictates the tempo of rallies much better in the game , and a couple of ground strokes are too much for muguruza . the excellent defence is on show too as she chases down what appears to be a lost cause to force muguruza into a difficult volley , which drifts long . a hold to love should give her confidence .
nerves finally get the better of robson as she tries to save a second set point , spraying a wayward forehand wide of the line . kanepi showed a touch more composure there as both players tightened up , using a fierce first serve to win the crucial points when it mattered . the 19-year-old has it all to do now , but has produced a spirited fightback already in her run to the fourth round .
she 's in danger of losing this set to love . watson looks deflated out there and i give this one 15 more minutes .
equally as impressive from robson . big couple of games coming up now as the set nears a conclusion .
sharapova thinks she has the chance to go on the attack when williams misses her first serve , but a big second serve sees the russian return the ball to the net . an ace from williams gives her a 40-15 lead , and she tries to seal the game with a drop shot , but some impressive pace from sharapova ensures that she makes the return . a long forehand on the next point from the defending champion sees williams hold .
an early challenge from cetkovska as she challenges an overrule from the line judge , but the intervention was correct and helps wozniacki complete an early hold of serve .
she keeps her bottle and pironkova takes the first set . she 's deserved that , too , as her serve was far more impressive throughout .
a hold to 15 to begin the set for lisicki . that 's her first game since the opening game of the match and just what the doctor ordered .
perfect from halep . she returns with an ace to hold her serve .
that 's much better from williams ! the world number one is immediately looking to attack lim 's serve and gives herself two break points with some solid play at the net . a poor serve form lim allows williams to pounce at the net again and get a break early in this set .
i knew this would happen . as soon as i start praising doi , she produces a stinker of a game . she throws in a double fault at 0-30 to give kvitova three break points , and the czech player takes the first of them when doi nets .
the defending champion tightens her grip on this match and is squeezing tighter and tighter . nice point from vesnina to get to 40-30 , skimming a ball over the net before following in with a volley . but it counts for little now .
an encouraging long rally from wozniacki fails to earn the dane a reprieve , with cetkovska brutally sending a deft chip over the net to edge further ahead . the ninth seed will now have to serve to keep this first set alive .
the run of breaks is ended as radwanska holds to love , with lisicki seemingly giving up on this set . can she regain her composure here ?
just as the american has sharapova running , she blows the chance with a forehand into the tramlines . she then gets advantage back with an ace and follows it up with another good serve that 's returned into the net . important hold .
just as i say that serena is getting back into it she 's goes and has another nightmare of a game . azarenka holds and it 's 3-3 .
i will say it again - cibulkova is working so hard at the back of the court - but most of the time , it 's not paying off as serena imposes herself on each point . a forehand winner takes serena to 30-30 , but a couple of mistakes means that the american 's advantage remains at just the one break .
the american wins the first point of the game with a forehand return , but the pole hits back quickly with her serve to take a 30-15 lead . keys plays the point of the match as she volleys at the net before being lobbed by the pole , but she recovers to smash a forehand past her opponent . however , her efforts are in vain as the 26-year-old ups the ante to earn the final two points with powerful play .
break and set ! bouchard makes an early mistake as her forehand travels out , but she makes up for it in the next rally as the duo exchange a ferocious barrage of shots before the 20-year-old comes up with a forehand winner deep into the corner . however , the number two seed comes up with an impressive backhand to bring the error from the canadian . after restoring parity bouchard is unable to hold the russian back as he commits back-to-back miscues on her backhand as sharapova takes the first set .
break , game and set ! wow , what an opening set . sharapova falls straight to a 30-0 deficit with both shots creeping just out . a touch less power on her efforts , and she may even be winning this contest . she comes back though with a nice stride towards the net after an obvious drop shot from jankovic but then hammers a shot into the net to give jankovic two set points . the leader is pegged back as she fails to deal with the spin on the champion 's shot but takes the set as sharapova puts another strike the wrong side of the line .
pressure from muguruza now as she takes the opening point and asks the question of bacsinszky 's forehand . the swiss player responds when the spaniard fires wide and fails on a challenge . muguruza moves forward on the attack and strikes with a tasty forehand that rockets down the line to give her the edge . break point is established when bacsinszky chips into the net , before the swiss delivers a wonderful chip . muguruza eventually takes the break when she comes up with a stunner of backhand to hammer the ball down into the corner .
a stroll for radwanska in that game to earn a break without having to get aggressive or force the play . ivanovic is too erratic and unless she can stamp out these unforced errors her tournament will be over .
bruising consistency from the belarusian and kuznetsova has no answer whatsoever to her first service game . that one too just the minute .
break back ! kvitova quickly puts the mistakes of the first game behind her , playing to pennetta 's forehand to force a mistake from the italian , before coming into the net to punch a forehand of her won to the back corner to bring up two break points of her own . pennetta misses her first serve , giving the czech a chance to come in again , which she does , swiftly leveling the set .
sharapova goes two breaks up and will serve for the match , after the closest game of the match so far . williams has brought up just one break point against the russian 's serve so far .
a lucky net cord gets venus off to the perfect start before two big serves are struck out by keys . however , the seven-time major winner makes two mistakes to allow keys a way back into the game before the younger of the two american hitters hooks a return wide .
you would have expected the momentum to have shifted , but azarenka creates an opportunity for her rival with a double fault . halep finds the net with a slightly miscued forehand before the romanian is handed two break points by an unforced error from azarenka , who hits back to save one with some great length on her strokes before a brilliant forehand winner clinches the point . an excellent second serve down the middle allows her to retain the control and halep is unable to find the line with the forehand on the run . stunning ! point of the match as both players produce some fantastic shots from the baseline . the running is eventually too much for halep , who is unable to get closer to azarenka 's superb forehand . a lack of patience prevents her from seeing out the game when she delivers a wayward forehand and an easy pass from halep after chasing down yet another poor drop shot brings up a second break point . azarenka bounces back with another winner , this time on the backhand side . a venture to the net ends with an emphatic volley from the belarusian , but halep refuses to give up ! she gets behind a powerful stroke to beat the advancing azarenka with a perfect backhand winner . advantage is secured and lost once again from azarenka , before a forehand winner edges her ahead when a halep review proves she clipped baseline . the hold is finally clinched when halep hits the net with a backhand . azarenka somehow escapes a 10-minute game . it is turning into a memorable match in new york .
the russian is dominating the court at the moment as she pulls the 20-year-old one way then the other before hitting a forehand winner , but bouchard gives her a taste of her own medicine in the next point before finding a bullet serve down the 't ' . a loose shot from sharapova hands the 20-year-old two game points , but she needs only one as sharapova claims the ball is out from a bouchard forehand , but replays show it bounces on the line .
another short game but this time its ivanovic who finds some form , mixing things up with a neat volley at the net to bring up a comfortable hold . a crucial confidence boost for the volatile serb .
a hold ! a hold of serve ! it 's azarenka who opens up daylight by holding to 15 in a game that included a delicious drop-shot . looks like we 'll be heading into a deciding third set !
from 0-30 serena claws her way back to 30-30 in that game but azarenka comes through to hold . she 's just one game away from levelling this contest up .
watson needs to capitalise on that game , but she lets off the american with two clumsy shots and she is down 0-30. however , she responds in fine style , driving a cross-court winner before peppering the american from the baseline to force the error . she ca n't continue the momentum , though , and keys breaks back when watson nets twice in succession .
after the length of that last game , that one just breezed by . radwanska was in control - at least at times - but there was a couple of really nice shots from keys too .
azarenka goes just wide wide a deep backhand and hampton makes it three breaks in a row . she 's back ahead in this second set .
kvitova fails to get pennetta 's first three serves back in play as the italian cruises towards a comfortable hold . kvitova does get the ball back while 40-0 down , but the italian easily guides it down the sideline for a backhand winner . that might be the most comfortable hold of serve we 've seen all match !
venus goes long and it 's another break point for the german .
a game strewn with radwanska errors sees the first break go to the italian . errani only had to be accurate there , not excellent , and that will delight her .
a sixth successive break of serve means that this second set is now bordering on the ridiculous . a packed court one is clearly delighted with another superb response from stephens though , as she uses swift movement to find a forehand winner inside the baseline . can she finally get a hold in the next service game that would boost her chances considerably ?
williams is looking so strong as she quickly takes a 40-0 lead . she is briefly rattled by a foot fault call as she gets ready to serve form the game , but quickly finds her composure , firing another big serve at garcia , which the french player ca n't return . garcia must hold next to keep herself in the match .
a comfortable hold for makarova to consolidate her break . an excellent start for her .
the 13th seed stays in touch with another routine hold , which once again featured a fine forehand winner . ivanovic has always been an entertaining player capable of producing winners from the back of the court .
break back ! halep 's shows resolve early on as she quickly gets the set back on serve . azarenka misses a couple of early serves , allowing halep to attack on the return . the second seed creates to break points before she watches a backhand from the 20th seed go long , before another mistake from azarenka hands her the game .
this is turning into a really assured performance from keys . when she takes the initiative , she is generally coming out on top . venus is doing a lot of running and stretching but so far , her efforts are n't getting the reward . an inside-out forehand earns keys two game points before venus hits a second-serve return long .
the first serve in the sixth sets up an intense rally that bacsinszky eventually takes thanks to some help from the net . the point is the start of an unchallenged push from the swiss player who moves unopposed to 40-0. muguruza does get one point in , but then loses out to a clever backhand down the line .
radwanska takes her third game in a row , and with a break here would pull level . it 's all going wrong for pironkova at the moment and really needs to hold now .
the 20-year-old finds her rhythm straightaway with a backhand winner which bounces on the baseline , and then follow that up with a forehand winner into the corner . sharapova 's response is emphatic as she works the canadian around the court before producing a drop shot to win the point . however , the number seven seed shows her spirit to fight back to force two errors from sharapova to take the game .
sharapova opens up with a double fault before dumping a backhand into the net . kirilenko quickly gets to 0-30 but she floats a backhand long on the next point . the number five seed proceeds to close the door on kirilenko 's chance of an early break to hold to 30 .
a series of powerful forehands from the world number one eventually take their toll on the romanian , who struggles with serve and loses it to love after an apology for a drop shot ends with azarenka wrong-footing her for the winner .
this is some match now . vinci starts with a crunching winner but serena responds in kind , and is going absolutely berserk . that only intensifies when she catches the line with the backhand of the match before she lets out a shriek when vinci ca n't return a first serve .
heavy hitting deep down the line gets the early hold for kvitova , who had to recover quickly after a couple of sloppy points on serve .
signs of confidence from the estonian now as she holds to love with minimum fuss . kanepi looked very convincing behind a slice serve in that game , putting robson back on serve in just over a minute .
another poor forehand from watson and radwanska is now just one game away from being the first player into the fourth round .
eight games in a row now for makarova , with kvitova continuing to look tense at the baseline as she drills successive forehands well past the baseline . surely the rot must stop in the next for the eighth seed or it looks increasingly bleak for her chances of victory .
tense times in this second set now . sharapova pulls off a magnificent drop shot to bring her back into the game at 30-15 , before flinging herself at the ball at full stretch to somehow play a backhand across court and level the game . jankovic then went back in front though in a cracking rally , as she curves a forehand outwards to the tramlines before correctly calling a sharapova shot out to pile the nerves on the russian . 5-4 .
break back ! another return winner moves lisicki to 15-40. she misses on the first break point but converts the second with a simple volley at the net .
like in the final game of the first set , kirilenko looks in control of the game but sharapova fights back with a forehand winner from the baseline to gain a break point . it 's a huge moment for kirilenko , but she shows an incredible touch with a backhand drop shot that has sharapova sprawling at the net . that touch soon deserts her though , and after a double fault , she dumps a backhand into the net to give sharapova a clear advantage .
wonderful from azarenka as she makes a rare wander to the net before putting away the volley to hold .
radwanska really has n't had a chance on the keys serve so far and the american breezes through another game to level it .
have to say it 's not great surprise that radwanska has made the breakthrough already . she races into a 0-40 lead and takes the game at the second time of asking .
sharapova breaks ! the second set is less than 15 minutes old , but the third seed already seems in total control . she breaks to 15 , as knapp contributes to her own downfall with two unforced errors and a game-ending double fault .
if you thought that doi would lose encouragement after that first game , think again , because she engineers a break point after kvitova nets , but she floats a forehand return just wide . she creates another chance , but again , she ca n't keep the ball on court . the number seven seed finally edges through the game to consolidate the break .
williams opens with a double fault , but she makes up for it with an authoritative smash . the first ace of the match takes her to 30-15 , before a forehand winner into the corner tells muguruza that she is already tuned in to this match . however , muguruza catches the line for 40-30 before two double faults in a row hand the spaniard a break point ! williams saves a couple of break points , while a third is saved with a big second serve . muguruza gets a fourth opportunity , and this time , she takes it when serena drills a backhand long .
we are only in the fifth game and serena is already shouting `` come on ! '' after every point . to her credit , she puts together a quite ruthless game , unleashing a number of forehands and drive volleys to seal a love hold .
muguruza starts the game well , but williams 's hitting is relentless now and the spaniard is struggling to cope . it 's two break points for serena , and although the first is saved with an ace , the second sees muguruza blaze a forehand long . we are back on serve .
vinci finally gets a bit of luck when her forehand clips the net , dropping on li 's side of the court , but the sixth seed continues to dictate the game form the back of the court , before successfully coming into the net to seal the game .
cirstea makes a superb start to the second set with a powerful backhand to the back of the court , before a mistake from watson gives her a 30-0 lead . a wide forehand from the world number 46 brings up two break points for cirstea , but she needs just one to clinch the game . that 's six in a row for the romanian now .
the ball-striking of pennetta is relentless and after a backhand winner takes her to 0-30 , dominating a rally two points later takes her to two break points . she only requires one though , with halep netting after more pressure from her opponent .
this has been a fast start from williams , whose heavy hitting is seeing her dominate from the baseline . she moves to 30-0 , but azarenka strikes back with a cross-court return that forces williams to net for 30-30. the world number one then makes a further two mistakes , and out of nowhere , azarenka breaks back !
the pole continues to dominate on her serve as she surges into a 40-0 lead . the american struggles once again for the depth on her returns which presents radwasnka with easy points , and although she commits one error , the 26-year-old levels the set with relative ease .
sharapova is yet to lose a game so far in this tournament , and she 's not ready to let williams have one yet . a few difficulties on serve for the american , as she opens with a double fault . a shaky start for the 25th seed .
well that did n't last long ! stosur breaks back at the first time of asking . game on again .
lisicki ca n't respond to being broken as bartoli holds to love to consolidate .
and she backs that up with a hold . bartoli to serve now for a 5-2 lead .
and she takes it ! great response from jankovic to keep herself in the set .
you 'd expect williams to come out all guns blazing at the start of the second but there 's little she can do against the brilliance of lisicki at the moment . the german wraps up a hold to 15 with her third second-serve ace . great stuff .
vinci moves three points away when her aggression forces an error out of williams , but it 's such a gutsy response from the defending champion , who converts a smash after several are defended by her opponent . two big serves move serena to 40-15 , before a second smash winner seals the game . what a game we have coming up . can serena save the calendar grand slam ?
from one extreme to the next as bartoli earns a comfortable hold to ease back ahead late in the second set . all the pressure now falls back under the american youngster , who must serve for a place in the match for a second time !
williams shows some fight as she takes her first game in the second set , having found herself 40-0 down and facing three more break points . sharapova made a couple of mistakes during that game , but has williams left it too late to get back in to this match ?
break : williams is showing absolutely no respect to the errani serve , which is getting battered back at the italian at double the original speed . the break is inevitable and comes to 40 .
williams breaks to 15 with some mammoth mid-court striking . she is just four points away from the final .
bartoli holds serve with a second serve ace down the middle . these early nerves are understandable as both women have a real shot at their first grand slam .
well , well , well ... she broke herself in that one . the double fault count is creeping up . vesnina takes the early break ... or is given it , rather . from 0-40 down , as well .
williams begins the game with her second and third aces but is soon 30-40 behind . she finds a big serve down the middle but somehow lisicki lobs the ball high into the sky and inside the baseline . you 'd expect the world number one to rocket the backhand away but she fluffs her lines and amazingly it 's lisicki who breaks first .
sharapova holds to 15. the match is 21 minutes old .
awesome . that 's the best way to describe that game from stosur . any momentum robson had built up was trampled on there ! the aussie is one game away .
sharapova breaks ! knapp reels off three straight points to level at deuce , but sharapova quickly earns a fourth break point , which she converts with a huge forehand volley . knapp complains to the umpire that the russian screamed `` come on '' before the point was complete . no action is taken though .
finally stosur gets a game on the board . she may still be two breaks behind , but it 's a start at least .
another break of serve and this one brings up the opening set for radwanska . there have been good spells form the brit , but overall radwanska was on top and deserved to take it .
right on cue , azarenka turns the screw and forces the break . her power is telling at the minute and she attacked the kuznetsova serve to break at the ideal time . she now serves for the match .
from 40-0 , kirilenko pushes robson back to 40-30. however , the aussie-born brit then dispatches a stunning forehand down the line to regain her first-set lead .
li once again battle to deuce . it panics sharapova , who puts a forehand well wide before wildly finding the net . four games running for li , who will now serve for the match .
that 's just what sharapova was looking for at the start of the set . a relatively comfortable hold to love gives her something to hang on to .
tie break ! a hold from robson sends this tense first-set to a tie breaker , which starts with a confident move from the brit at the net for an early 1-0 lead .
azarenka starts the game with a couple of big mistakes to open the door to halep , who kicks it open by chasing down a poor drop shot to easily pass her rival with the passing forehand . three break points . azarenka saves one by going cross-court with a powerful forehand , but her serve is broken when halep moves the 20th seed out wide before beating her down the line with a backhand winner . key moment in the match .
muguruza begins with two welcome points behind her first serve , because she 's given a third successive free point when serena goes long with a return . a love hold is complete when another return is miscued . she 'll be delighted with that .
she finally converts a break point and we 're back on serve in this one . azarenka has turned it up over the last couple of games and is looking the more comfortable out there .
and that could be curtains for jankovic . she hands radwanska two break points and the world number two does not pass up the opportunity .
wozniacki moves 15-0 ahead when williams fires a forehand wide , but the american responds in the next point with a passing shot . williams then hits one down the line to move onto 15-30 , before wozniacki nets to hand williams 15-40. williams hits wozniacki 's next serve long for 30-40 , but breaks when wozniacki nets .
and that , could be that ! awesome attack from sharapova against bartoli , who gave everything she had . it was n't enough though and sharapova is now serving for the match .
stunning game from sharapova . i 'd go as far as saying it was her best of the match . she had bartoli scampering all over the court .
kvitova has already made 18 errors , and she throws in two more to hand doi 0-30. she remains composed to get to 30-30 , but doi benefits from a net-cord for the second time in the match to earn break point . kvitova saves the first , and she is forced to do so twice more to avoid falling 5-1 behind before finally sealing the game .
a pretty comfortable serve for the pole . we 're still yet to see a break and indeed it was radwanska on her previous serve that looked most likely to be broken .
there 's nothing the pole can do against serves like that , though . it 's another ace to end the set and it 's gone to a decider . who will come out on top ? it could be a big upset here .
it 's a great start for sharapova as azarenka double faults to hand the russian the break .
make that 11 successive point won on serve , with bartoli quickly building a 40-0 lead behind a wide backhand winner . an unforced error from the frenchwoman proves to be just a momentary blip , with a strong first serve helping keep this first set firmly on serve in the early going .
much of serena 's performance has been about her hitting from the back of the court , but she ends two points in a row with a well-timed volley . cibulkova gets back to 30-30 but another return winner brings up the chance of a double break . a lucky net cord results in the slovakian saving it , but when serena creates a second , she strikes to move a game away from the last four .
big , big hold ! she had to fend off another couple of break points , but in the end it was two unforced errors from li to hand the game to her opponent . it was beginning to look as though li was gaining confidence , but suddenly the errors came back and there have been far too many so far from both women .
williams gets a break back to stay in the match . sharapova fought back from 40-0 down to take the game to deuce , but a couple of errors cost the second seed , giving williams a foothold in the second set .
sharapova hits into the net and as a result bartoli now holds a one-set lead ! can the frenchwomen pull off a shock now ?
bacsinszky gets a little lucky to open the scores when her shot hits the net and falls just short of an on-rushing muguruza . parity is drawn when bacsinszky fails on the forehand , but her spanish opponent also comes up short with a forehand that flies beyond the baseline . the mistake does n't get to muguruza too much and she comes back with a powerful forehand winner . bacsinszky eventually holds strong , though , and closes the game out with an ace .
what is going on here ? an eighth double fault from williams is followed by a backhand passing shot from muguruza . this is getting interesting . the plot thickens when muguruza unleashes a magnificent backhand return winner for three break points , before williams registers a 10th ace . a big first serve reduces the score 30-40 , before another ace saves the third break point . this is brilliant . it gets better - an ace registering 121mph takes serena to championship point before muguruza delivers the most impressive of replies as a forehand is drilled into the corner . the spaniard then hits one of the biggest returns you 'll ever see to reach a fourth break point but she goes agonisingly long with a backhand . an epic rally ends with serena netting a forehand for a fifth break point for muguruza , and this time , she takes it with a crunching forehand winner . this is incredible !
sharapova is playing beautifully . she holds to 30 to level the second set at one game all . the fans seem to be on the side of the russian , however the ease with which she is getting the job done has left them somewhat subdued .
i 'll tell you something , serena is far from done in this match . at 30-0 , she makes plenty of ground to stretch to make a drop shot before catching the baseline to record the winner . it 's a remarkable shot . she then crushes a baseline winner for the love hold and bacsinszky has something to think about .
a slightly nervous-looking robson allows kvitova a 40-0 lead , before fighting back to 40-30 , but the lead for too great for the czech , and she sent robson out wide , forcing the brit to send the ball in to the net from a tricky angle .
we 've seen the tide change numerous times in this match but is this the moment that keys makes her move ? more unbelievably strong hitting , given the condition of her thigh , from the younger of the two americans sees her hold to 15 and when we return , venus will be serving to remain in the tournament .
the belarusian starts with a comfortable service game , ending it with a big ace . perfect start .
pennetta consolidates the break with ease as a drained kvitova makes mistake after mistake , firing a backhand long before a forehand goes wide . on paper , it should be pennetta who is struggling with the longer match , having played two more sets than kvitova to get this far , while also competing in the women 's doubles with compatriot sara errani , but it 's the czech who is flagging .
the intensity from serena has lowered in the last few minutes while cibulkova looks determined to make something happen . the 11th seed hits a forehand winner for 15-30 before connecting with an audacious volley at the net for two break points . huge response from serena , though , who rattles off four consecutive points - two aces , a unreturned first serve and a backhand winner - to re-open her two-game margin .
at 30-0 down , muguruza misses the easiest of forehands - those kind of errors were n't coming 45 minutes ago . radwanska holds to love with a nice drop shot at the net .
break back ! hello . out of nowhere the brit is back on level terms thanks to some deep hitting off both wings .
sharapova saves set point to reduce the arrears to 5-3. massive game coming up for bartoli now . can she handle the pressure ?
robson produces a second ace of the match on her way to holding . clijsters will now serve for the set .
double fault as kerber feels the pressure of holding serve .
sharapova 's serve is too powerful for williams . after securing the first ace of the match , the second seed smashes her way past the american , to leave herself just one game short of the set .
it 's a confident start to the deciding set from sharapova as she fires a run of solid first serves towards vandeweghe , allowing her to hold to love .
great mixture of serve from vinci as he serve and volley sees her crush mladenovic deep . a bit of luck at the net brings a wayward return from her french opponent at 30-15 , and the game is soon rattled out when vinci works well on the smash before mladenovic throws the game with a long return .
radwanska moves to within two games of the match by holding to 30. li is running out of chances to take this into a decider .
through gritted teeth wozniacki keeps the second set on serve , doing just enough with precise ground strokes at the baseline . a quick change of ends sees the dane apply yet more strapping to her left ankle , a sure sign that she is seeking further support .
there 's an air of invincibility about williams now . azarenka is n't doing a lot wrong , but two aces help take williams to 40-0. the american throws up a 65mph second serve , but after she connects with the return , it 's point over .
oh yes . a thunderous forehand volley makes it 0-40 before azarenka double faults to give the russian another break . this is very one sided right now . sharapova serving for the set .
that 's better from the 2003 champion , who responds with three straight points to move to the brink of the game . keys stays active with a forehand winner that wrong-foots her opponent but a fine serve down the middle helps venus to the game .
cornet uses a range of shots to stop williams ' run , slipping a volley past the 25th seed before trapping her with a serve to the body . impressive stuff from the french player .
the pole shows sign of toil on her serve as the 20-year-old forces her way into the game with a couple of fine winners across the court as she works the 26-year-old one way then the other . keys goes wide with her backhand at 30-30 to hand radwanska a game point , but the american then produces one of the shots of the match as her forehand clips the corner of the baseline . the pole is forced to dig deep to fend off the challenge of the 20-year-old and manages to carve out an advantage , which is taken when keys goes long with her attempted forehand winner . a good battle here !
one break back ! an extended rally ends with bartoli hitting long and that 's one break back for lisicki . she could n't do it , could she ?
barty receives a big cheer from her home supporters after taking the opening point , and she moves 30-15 ahead when the american loops a return wide . a powerful forehand from the baseline takes barty to two game points , but she misses an opportunity when volleying the ball into the net . a double fault takes the score to deuce , but williams ca n't bring up break point after failing to take advantage of a weak second serve . it 's a topsy-turvy first game , and barty saves a break point before a huge serve into the body of williams to bring up her fourth game point , which she takes with an ace ! great start !
a straight-forward game for sharapova . williams has no answer for her serve . usually her forehand is excellent , but sharapova is forcing her into mistakes while using it .
keys makes two unforced errors to gift watson 30-0 , but the brit then misses with an ambitious lob on the half-volley . watson moves to game point when keys ca n't return a first serve , but the 21-year-old nets twice to allow the american back to deuce . key moments for watson coming up , but she hangs tough to hold and remain in the set .
robson comes as close as 40-30 but clijsters extinguishes any hope of a break with a classy cross-court forehand . the belgian now within a game of the first set .
garcia mis-hits her return , catching the ball on the frame of her racquet , but the ball remains in play , deceiving williams . however , the world number one finds a couple of big serves , including on ace , to keep her in control of the game .
comfortable hold for radwanska . watson did get into a couple of rallies , but once the points get like that you do fancy the pole .
hampton flinches with the finishing line in sight . she misses four forehands in a row , but will now serve to force a third set . can she hold her nerve ?
comfortable hold to love for azarenka . a big serve followed by a big forehand seals the deal .
a couple of poor shots leave things at 15-15 , but there is no mistaking mladenovic 's next move as she rushes to plant over the net . a forehand volley winner sets up the hold , but the the youngster fires long to give vinci another shot . the italian can not return the next one and mladenovic noses out in front .
just as i thought radwanska 's drop shots could n't get any better , she finds the line from deep to move 40-30 ahead , and holds with keys going long with a return . now the pressure is on the american to serve to take us to a breaker .
the dane shows tremendous spirit to save two break points , mixing things up to switch play at the baseline . her joy is shortlived though , with the ninth seed sending two forehand 's long in quick succession to hand her opponent the vital break . it looks like the former world number one is helpless to prevent another early wimbledon exit at this stage .
half an hour ago it looked like the number one seed would be on her way home but now she looks sure to reach the quarter-finals as expected .
azarenka is showing plenty of guts . she commits another double fault for 30-30 , but she gets out of trouble with some monster hitting , sealing the game with a forehand into the corner . this is n't over ...
two break points . the first is saved .
indeed she does take it at the first time of asking . that was n't a set of the highest quality you will see , but sharapova did just about enough to take it . it will be tough now for mattek-sands to get something from this .
the russian finishes with an ace to draw level . confident start by both players .
make that a second hold to love for robson , who is definitely finding her groove with a pair of awesome forehand winners into the corner . kanepi has failed to put any pressure on the brit 's serve so far , preferring to stay deep at the baseline and wait for errors .
what a forehand winner from li ! the czech has bottled it , it must be said , but still that 's a fine shot to send us back on serve . no tie-break , remember .
vinci gets the better of li in a 14-stroke rally , but makes the first double fault of the match . a strong serve from the italian sees li return the ball to the net , but vinci 's backhand does the same on the next point to bring up deuce . li goes for too much power , and smashes two forehands long to help vinci hold serve for the first time . the chinese player will serve for the first set again next .
safarova breezes into a 30-0 lead but williams stays competitive when putting the czech under enough pressure to miss a passing shot . the american gets to 30-30 with a crushing backhand winner down the line before she gets a look at a break point after a marvellous backhand return . that 's taken when safarova double faults , and we are back on serve . what a final .
a few big moments coming up for watson , but a fine forehand winner from inside the court eases matters and take her to 30-0. a weak drop shot hand the brit three game points , and that 's terrific tennis from the 21-year-old , who moves her opponent around the court before sending a backhand down the line .
williams opens with a double fault , before smashing the ball into the net . she responds in timely fashion , and a forehand from inside the court take her to 40-30 , before azarenka frames a baseline shot . it 's worth remembering that azarenka was two breaks down in that second set . it was a remarkable turnaround .
kerber saves the first with an impressive forehand on-the-run but double faults on the second to gift lisicki one break back .
bacsinszky is looking hold serve to stay in the first set and she obliges with a good first serve that muguruza comedically sends into the crowd . the spanish player hits one a little too long on the attack to draw the scores level , before bacsinszky takes a 40-0 lead by forcing a backhand error . the game is completed as muguruza is unable to put a return on a strong serve from muguruza . both players are mixing their serves well in this contest .
the pressure is all on vinci at this stage and serena is aware of it . she 's on the attack at the start of each point and it pays off , with a return off a second serve proving too hot to handle for the italian .
there finally is the break , and it 's following another atrocious line call . this time keys 's forehand was called in , but it was some way out - with it the pole takes the set without the need for a breaker .
no problems at all for the italian , who took control of that set from about the midway point and deservedly claims the first . this will be a big test of radwanska 's character .
williams looks in the zone again , and a 122mph takes her to 30-15. both players tamely find the net to see the score progress to game point for williams , but she is picked off by vinci after making her way to the net . the italian is pumped and she steals the break back when serena throws in a double fault . this match is incredibly tense .
after a shaky start , williams has really found a good rhythm with her serve , and it 's an easy hold for her .
both players at the net for one point there . it was n't textbook from either player and jankovic eventually got the point . an important hold from her there .
li saves it but radwanska pings the ball into the corner forcing the chinese into a net shot to set up another . radwanska breaks again , the third straight in the match .
kvitova sends a slack 89mph second serve down the middle at break point , but her mistake goes unpunished thanks to a weak return from makarova . the eighth seed is quick to capitalise , consolidating the break with a strong forehand down the line . makarvoa has barely been back on court for 10 minutes but now must serve to stay in the second set .
lisicki has been just superb at the net today , and she continues to be so in this game , with a powerful smash to give her a 40-15 lead , before she takes the game with a drop shot , which results in an air-shot from kanepi . the estonian is just starting to look a little weary .
serena is going through the motions on her serve and she records another ace on the way to three set points . safarova saves the first by forcing williams to net with a backhand on the stretch but she takes the second with a big serve out wide . there 's been no signs of the illness that plagued her against bacsinszky and that spells trouble for safarova .
what 's that , an easy service hold ? this match just keeps on surprising . li fights back late in the game with a big forehand down the line , then zakopalova nets , but when li goes long we go back to parity . we 're at the business end now .
more encouragement for watson , who wins the opening point , but again , the power and accuracy that keys is finding with her serve is terrifying for someone who is 18 , and she eases through the game with a couple of quick points . watson will return to serve to remain in the match for the second time .
more brutal hitting from williams takes her to 15-30 but safarova responds with an outswinging serve to force the mistake from the american . it 's not enough to discourage williams though , who hits through the ball two more times on a return to leave safarova with no answer . this is brutally good .
watson recovers well to take the opening game of the match from behind . she did n't panic early on and it 's a good start .
a gutsy effort from the serb as she forced radwanska to serve out the match at 5-4 in the second set . the pole has looked unflappable at times and one more hold in that form and she is through to the last eight .
makarova has really seized the initiative in this second set , slamming a fierce return down the middle to take full advantage of an error-strewn game on serve from kvitova . the russian will now serve to level this match , with new balls aiding her cause .
williams looks on course for a solid start to the decider but despite reaching 30-0 , she finds herself facing a break point , which is taken by safarova when the american goes wide .
a break of serve would hand stakhovsky the set but federer holds to love , not offering the ukrainian the slighest glimpse .
djokovic takes a 30-15 lead , but a missed forehand followed by a poor forehand allow dimitrov to edge ahead , resulting in the top seed throwing him racquet into the air in frustration . he gets it back to deuce , but misses a volley attempt while sliding into the net to return a drop shot before returning wide on the next point to allow dimitrov to keep the set level .
in contrast to murray 's dip during service games , federer is serving better now than at any point during the previous three sets . however , a poor drop shot from the second seed , followed by a stunning backhand from the scot brings up break point . he dictates the rally , sending federer the full width of the baseline , and it 's too much for the swiss . murray is right back in this set .
it 's a fast start from djokovic , who uses his forehand to force murray to attempt back-to-back lobs , which both fail . a huge serve down the middle brings up three game points before a love hold is completed in majestic style as the world number one dinks a drop shot over the net in response to murray 's heavy slice .
the backhand falters for novak a little back on cilic 's serve , but his opponent then fails with one of the worst chips i have ever seen in the history of tennis . cilic moves back in front when djokovic is forced into an error of his own , but they do not call him the world number one for no reason ! he comes straight on the attack with a wonderful forehand winner to tie the scores . more mistakes from cilic arise ... what 's that ? another break ? okay then ... novak completes the game when cilic double faults for the second time .
very little resistance from almagro on the ferrer serve . he holds to love and is quickly level . it 's a matter of time for the ferrer break , i think .
what 's this ? dimitrov cruises to this game . smart play from the bulgarian forces djokovic to do all the running as he picks his spots . he manages to hold his serve and narrow the deficit . djokovic is now serving for the first set .
stan finally levels up the set at two games apiece , but he 's been made to work so , so , so hard to win his own serve here . gasquet is threatening a major scalp and , again , it 's only a matter of time before he breaks the wawrinka serve . at the moment he 's showing more heart .
this is beginning to look ominous for rosol . nadal is really imposing himself in every exchange , and the czech is n't getting much of a look in . he holds to love .
wowzers . i feel sorry for the ball in that rally . the pair trade huge blows before wawrinka directs a beautiful backhand down the line for a 30-15 lead . however , falla 's unfazed , and a forehand winner brings up 30-30 , but wawrinka produces two serves that ca n't be returned to level the set at three apiece .
there are some obvious nerves from the belgian as he misses two of his opening three first serves , allowing murray to come in from the baseline an attack , forcing a couple of errors from the world number 105. goffin mistimes a cross-court forehand as he sends the ball into the net to give murray a chance to break , but his forehand goes just wide as he tries to wrap up the game . however , goffin 's nerves continue as he fires long on back-to-back points to give murray the break .
federer fires down his fifth ace of the match to reach 30-0 before bringing up three set points after a matosevic error . the world number 76 goes for broke on the next point but he goes long to fall two sets behind .
it 's petzschner 's turn to hold comfortably now , so almagro will serve for the fourth set . can he hold his nerve this time ?
first set nadal : sealed with an ace , the spaniard holds to 15 to take the opening set 6-4 .
he takes it straight away as janowicz attempts a drop shot but ca n't get it over the net . superb start from the man who started as underdog , remember .
we have to remember that monfils is actually a very good player . he 's just being made to look ordinary by a superhuman nadal today . however , he just about gets the better in that game , with help from a 134mph second-serve ace ! amazing .
i do n't think there is any question now that nadal is struggling physically to chase down these darcis cannons across court , with the belgian taking advantage to earn a hard-fought hold . if the spaniard harbours any realistic hopes of a comeback he surely must hold in the next service game .
murray takes the first point after a backhand slice makes berdych slip and he 's down again on the next ! murray has 0-30 , but berdych successfully challenges an out-call to register an ace , and a net cord helps berdych get back to 30-30. however , it 's break point to murray after a well-directed backhand makes berdych volley into the net , and it 's taken when berdych ca n't handle a cross-court backhand .
goffin lets a 40-0 lead slip to deuce with a series of errors including a double fault . the belgian slices his forehand wide to give tsonga another chance to break . he hands tsonga the break , making another double fault . goffin heads back to his chair looking deflated .
federer 's backhand has been a thing of beauty this evening and another passing shot off that wing takes him to 15-30. it is n't enough to discourage matosevic though , and he powers back to hold serve .
despite that shot , ferrer holds comfortably again , finishing off with a forehand that almagro can not return . no chance of a break for almagro so far .
another good second serve takes him to a love and a comfortable hold following some djokovic forced errors . it 's his first serve that 's rarely finding the target at the moment , but no problems with his second serve so good for now .
superb forehand down the line gets paire back in the game at 40-15 and he works it back to deuce . both men make mistakes and federer edges a very low-quality game - aside from a glorious inside-out forehand to glance it past paire to win it .
federer goes millimetres wide with a passing backhand but it 's a comfortable opener in the second set for the frenchman .
all too easy there for djokovic , who mixed things up with aggression at the net to claim a two-set advantage . that will probably prove enough to see the serb progress , but he will want to maintain focus and end this match with minimum effort .
whatever tsonga can do , cilic can perhaps do better : the croatian returns with an untouchable game of his own , which is concluded with an ace .
another quick service game and break points are becoming few and far between here .
first point to murray , who connects with a second-serve return , but a perfect ace down the middle earns parity from dimitrov . he mixes it up with a serve out wide that murray ca n't return , and a comfortable volley at the net sees him bring up two game points . super game from the 23-year-old , who takes us into a tie-break with an ace out wide .
djokovic saves one , mathieu puts the next into the top of the net and the next also does n't make it over . djokovic turned 0-40 into a game with two aces on deuce . that 's the stuff champions are made of .
the british number one strolls into a 40-0 lead , courtesy of an ace either side of two becker errors . a forehand mistake from murray gifts his opponent a point , but his second ace seals the game .
wawrinka takes an enthralling first point of the game , with both players tight to the net it almost seems like a badminton match . nadal gets the final touch while falling backwards , but he smiles as he watches it just fly beyond the tramlines . wawrinka continues to mount a fightback , and takes his first game of the set .
very comfortable opening service game for murray as he loses just one point on his way to levelling the set .
i wonder what the odds would have been on murray serving more aces than janowicz ? he now has seven to the pole 's three after another love-hold .
whoosh . petzschner slams an ace past almagro and holds . the spaniard will serve for the opening set .
murray channels his disappointment from the last game to find a series of big , non-returnable serve , giving murray a 40-0 lead . federer gets the ball back in play , engaging the brit in another lengthy rally , but it 's the third seed who comes out on top this time to take the game .
djokovic takes the first two points , but he ca n't execute a drop shot from the back of the court and nadal easily makes the ground to hit the winner . however , djokovic regains control of the game and easily levels things at the start of this second set .
the opening two points are taken by kyrgios but murray is flummoxing him with his variety and we soon arrive at deuce after mistakes from the australian . he holds on though confidently enough to regain the lead .
a double fault from the top seed gives muller the lead , but djokovic levels it up with an ace before a long forehand puts the serb ahead , and he fires another ace down the middle to see it out . this has been a closely-contested set , with both players surviving difficult service games , and neither securing a break yet .
untidy start from nadal as the spaniard gives up the first two points with two errors , but klizan then clips wide to allow the spaniard onto the board at 30-15. nadal hits another one long to hand klizan 40-15 and he secures the hold when nadal nets .
not the smooth start the number two seed would have been looking for , but federer holds his serve . he founds himself 15-30 down and had to rely on a couple of second serves , but he wo n't be too concerned .
there it is ! djokovic nets a backhand , which means that he loses a set for the first time in the tournament . it did not look likely at the end of the first , but wawrinka has fought back and we have a game on our hands now .
this man is a machine ! shot after shot after shot from federer , who grabs another easy hold with quality placement and some admirable gambling on the serve and volley .
a sliced backhand gives murray the opening point of the second set , but he finds the net with a forehand on the next rally . once again , lu struggles with his ball toss , resulting in the first double fault of the match . murray brings up break point when lu fires his forehand long , and he takes the game when the chinese taipei player makes the same mistake on the next point .
bautista agut plays a good drop shot , but ferrer slips and loses his footing as he tries to reach the ball and make the return . the world number 60 holds up his hand in apology , but he does n't actually look that sorry ! bautista agut clinches the game with a delicate volley from close into the net .
nishikori looks almost casual in moving into a 30-15 lead in the game , smashing the ball on the run into the open court . nadal is soon back on the offensive , driving a winner into the corner , but he goes long to hand nishikori game point , but a big gust of wind contributes to nadal making it deuce . after bringing up set point , nadal sends another cross-court shot flying past his opponent to move one away from the quarter-finals .
berdych holds to 15 to edge ahead again .
nadal shanks a mis-hit forehand long and dimitrov breaks to 30. what a start !
two quick-fire points move djokovic 30-0 ahead , but djokovic slips before hitting the net in the next point for 30-15. djokovic moves 40-15 ahead when federer hits the net , before djokovic holds when federer slices a serve wide of the baseline .
the spaniard does just that .
ferrer saves a series of break points but they keep coming and eventually almagro takes one . third time lucky serving for the match ? ferrer is fuming at himself , a rare display of emotion today .
klizan continues to impress as he recovers from 0-15 to move level with a brilliant forehand . klizan then takes two straight points to move 40-15 ahead , before eventually holding when nadal finds the net .
an unbelievable volley a the net from murray to control a powerful djokovic attempted pass sends him on his way to a vital hold . so important that he won that one and he did , but it took a big effort .
murray now attacking the serve and controlling the play from the baseline . superb backhand passing shot from the scot lands right at the feet of haase for two break points . he saves one with an ace before putting a backhand into the net only half way up . commanding start from murray .
there was an air of inevitability about that break as federer moves up another gear by stepping in to expose his opponent 's weak second serve . at 15-40 ahead the second seed uncorks a delicate return that leaves benneteau beaten despite being in a strong position at the net . federer will now serve for the second set and looks in no mood to waste time this afternoon .
fognini takes roddick all the way to deuce . however , the american holds his nerve to serve out for four games each . roddick is now just two game away .
kyrgios survives a couple of errors , including a shocking mis-hits at the net , to hold his serve , and he 's now just one game from a place in the quarter-finals . on his way to the hold , he hit his 36th ace of the match ! big game coming up for nadal now .
djokovic can do no wrong at the moment as he finds that extra yard to drop a stunning shot past nadal in the opening point of the game . that becomes 30-0 seconds later as the spaniard fires wide , but djokovic follows suit moments later . the serbian does manage to regain the lead , but nets in the next point to leave it at 40-30 , before nadal secures deuce moments later . djokovic does manage to hold , however , following a stunning ace .
tsonga is gifted 30-15 when federer sprays a couple of forehands wide of the tramlines , but a thunderous forehand return earns him 30-30. tsonga gets on the board with a big first serve , though , and that ought to give him a bit more confidence than he has been showing so far .
wawrinka gets punished early on when federer pounces on a return to send a huge winner down into the corner . stan bounces straight back , though , to move into a 30-15 lead off some telling service work . federer guesses correctly on a smash but can only find the net , allowing wawrinka to take an opening hold when roger fails on the forehand .
mind you , murray is n't hanging around either . he serves out to love for a second time . it 's looking like one break of serve is going to be enough to win this set .
the romanian is on the board as he thwacks down a big serve and puts away the volley at 40-15 .
to nadal 's credit , he forced that game to deuce , but wawrinka eventually powers a forehand down the line to open up a 5-1 lead . nadal is still in agony out there , but is refusing to give up . you 've got to admire that courage but he looks to be fighting a losing battle .
good start from wawrinka , who forces murray to go long twice in succession . however , after wawrinka goes wide , murray plays a immaculate lob over his opponent for 30-30. he plays an even better one on the next point , but he nets on the follow up , before repeating that effort to concede the game .
just as tsonga looks to be cruising to a comfortable hold , gasquet produces a backhand volley worthy of distinction . beautiful shot . but tsonga still closes out the game for a 2-0 lead at the start of the first .
djokovic is absolutely coasting now as he watches his first two serves returned to the net before hitting a looping forehand past his opponent before another nieminen return goes long . the world number one is just a game off a spot in the second round now .
finally ! at the fifth time of asking murray takes the third set . he 's in complete control at the moment . berdych needs something extraordinary to happen , and quick .
djokovic frames the return and that 's the second set . what a game we have on our hands now .
the pole fluffs his lines with an easy volley at 40-0 and then a double fault on the next but puts the game to bed with another ace at 40-30 .
game to love for monfils now . no problem at all for him , yet i do n't think there 's been a break point all game so far .
fourth set djokovic : the serb takes the breaker 7-3 and this match is going the distance .
ferrer relentlessly pushes towards the semi-finals , playing some spectacular shots to take a 30-0 lead , but he tries a bit too hard in the third point of the game , just pushing his forehand wide . a backhand drop shot puts him back in control , before a huge mis-hit from robredo hands him the game . ferrer needs just one more game to wrap up the match .
it 's another tough hold from djokovic , but there was no real threat of a break in truth . the serb is being largely matched at the baseline and this time it 's his turn to pull off a sublime drop shot that his opponent does not even reach . djokovic will surely be ramping up the pressure during goffin 's next serve .
excellent stuff from ferrer , who wraps up a service game to love that will surely give him a bit of a confidence boost . his ego has certainly taken a hit after that first set .
dimitrov sends a routine forehand wide of the mark to concede the first point , but he is soon back level with an ace . the 23-year-old steps into court to put away a forehand for a 30-15 lead , but a huge double fault gives murray an opening at 30-30. he survives , though , and we remain on serve .
'right back at ya , ' says stakhovsky as he also holds to love .
brute force on first serve sees berdych win three successive points , with a rare double fault quickly inviting tomic back into a service game that looked fairly routine . the seventh seed responds quickly though , slamming a second serve down the line to keep the fourth set on serve in the early going .
now almagro must serve to save the net . quite a turnaround these last few minutes and we 've started to see the best of ferrer . there 's just a sense here ... can he take it all the way ? you bet he can , but there 's a mountain to climb first , starting with a break here or a tie break win .
too little , too late in the game from djokovic and istomin holds for a solid start to his match . how can djokovic respond with his first service game ?
the serve favours murray on this occasion with a service winner putting the sixth seed ahead at 30-15. a dramatic exchange at the net eventually sees murray grab a further lead with a wonderful chip , that forces kyrgios to thrash the ball into the crowd where somebody takes a belter of a catch . murray grabs the game by forcing a forehand issue for kyrgios .
aaah well , my prediction of murray breaking was so wrong . robredo holds impressively to love , sealing the game with a perfectly-placed ace on the t .
a reassuring hold to 15 from muzza . i 'd keep the cap on if i were you ! can he now trouble djoko 's serve and break back ?
the frenchman holds his serve for the first time as murray shanks a forehand high and long .
another simple hold from djokovic to 15. murray has n't had a look at the djokovic serve for a while . the serb is closer to securing a break , but still has to step it up to manage it . can he do it here ?
it looks like nieminen 's legs have gone as the top seed eases a backhand to the back corner before floating a forehand over the finn , forcing him to fire wide . nieminen midread 's the serb 's slower second serve , turning it into the crowd , before a backhand off the next point goes long , handing djokovic another game .
which he relinquishes straight away by slapping an easy forehand wide . silly boy .
what a huge break for ferrer ! both men played some great tennis in that game , but almagro makes the crucial error and he 's thrown it away again !
from 4-1 behind , ferrer pulls it back to 4-4. the spaniard looks to be in the ascendancy now while tipsarevic appears to be waning .
nadal sends a backhand into the net , and he comes so , so close to falling 0-30 behind , but a djokovic backhand just misses the line . however , nadal throws in a double fault and this is tentative from the left-hander . a perfectly-executed defensive lob has nadal on the back foot and a smash into the net gives two break points to djokovic . he misses out on the first , but he pushes nadal wide on the second to force the mistake and we are back on serve in the fourth !
nieminen shows incredible pace around the court as he rushes in to the net for a volley , only to see it returns to the baseline by djokovic . to the crowd 's amazement , the finn sprints back in time to hit an excellent forehand down the sideline to claim the point . an uncharacteristic sloppy backhand from djokovic allows the world number 87 to wrap the game up on the next point with another stunning forehand winner . the finn may have made a slow start , dropping his serve in the opening game of the set , but he 's recovered well . whether or not he can get the break back though is another matter .
ferrer seems to be able to do no wrong , as he clips the sideline with a brilliant forehand , forcing dolgopolov to smash the ball into the net , bringing up three more break points for the fourth seed . a couple of big serves from the 26th seed pull it back to 40-30 before a wide forehand brings up deuce . dolgopolov forces advantage for the third time , before firing a 127mph serve at his opponent , who fails to make the return . dolgopolov did well to get himself through that game , after such a strong start by the spaniard .
wawrinka has 30-0 in no time at all , and although robredo competes gamely in a lengthy rally , the swiss thunders down a forehand to earn three set points , the first of which is taken with another winner . that was pretty much the perfect set from wawrinka .
gasquet gets to 30-03 as he looks for the double break , but a long return gives game point to robredo , which is converted with an easy volley at the net .
nishikori takes the first point , but nadal soon has him on the back foot once more . the number 13 seed shows a bit more determination in moving to the brink of the game , but he goes long and nadal has deuce . nishikori hangs in there though , and moves in to hit a cross-court winner for the game .
another easy hold for murray . now it 's clear to see simon is drained of energy . it was bound to happen .
djokovic concedes the opening point , but he maintains his composure to reel off four points in a row to once again put the pressure on his opponent . can gasquet step up to take the set to a tie-break ?
there 's a huge cheer for stepanek as he finally wins his first challenge of the match after a forehand was wrongly called out . however , it 's not enough to stop djokovic racing through the game , sealing it with a stunning two-handed effort down the line .
good hold for the german as he smashes a djokovic lob past the serb . at least he 's competing much better in this set .
at 30-15 fognini plops up a smash for nadal and just walks back to the service line , knowing he had no hope of winning the point . nadal holds emphatically with some big hitting , but still needs to earn back that break .
the writing looks on the wall when gasquet frames a forehand to concede 15-30 , but a trademark backhand shot helps him get back on level terms . however , he misses with it during the next rally , handing match point to djokovic , but he sends a backhand long after dominating the point . he gets a second chance after a backhand volley , but again , it 's saved by gasquet thanks to a well-struck forehand into the corner . gasquet wastes a game point of his own , but he eventually holds when djokovic nets a return .
it will be interesting to see how wawrinka responds from that . he looked the stronger of the two players at the back end of the set but out of nowhere , his game let him down . djokovic holds relatively comfortably to 15 and wawrinka needs a hold in the next game .
nadal starts his service game with three meaty serves that rosol ca n't return and the spaniard has 40-0. rosol manages to get into a rally on the fourth point but he nets and rafa begins with a love game .
djokovic shows incredible relfexes at the net to 15-0 before federer miscues a forehand when on the attack . that was a chance . however , the world number one twice finds the net and we have 30-30 - federer is two points from the set . it should be one but federer sends a smash right onto the racquet of djokovic who fires straight back at the swiss . djokovic is pumped ! the serbian misses out but he gets a second chance with a superb forehand that catches the line . federer is n't finished though , and a missed forehand from djokovic gives federer a set point . djokovic comes back to create a game point but federer gets a second chance for the set with a backhand down the line . he misses an absolute sitter of a forehand though , and is made to pay the price . after a 14-minute game , djokovic holds . how huge could that be ?
it appeared to be plain sailing for cilic but a couple of nervy backhands into the net give nishikori a chance to get one of the breaks back . like on the previous occasion though , the advantage quickly evaporates as cilic winds up with his first serve and forehand , but nishikori gets a third chance to break when cilic incorrectly challenges a call and he strikes when cilic blasts a forehand long .
ferrer is working hard as he tries to get himself back into the set , beating nadal with a good drop shot . he tries the same shot on the next point , but nadal is expecting it and makes the return , but ferrer is able to use his backhand to smash the ball into an open court . another excellent backhand brings up two break points for the fourth seed . the defending champion manages to save the first with a strong forehand , before another down the line brings up deuce . nadal forces advantage but is unable to convert , dragging his forehand wide . a shot to the net on the next point gives ferrer another chance to get the set back on serve . a long return allows nadal to save , but the fourth seed gets yet another chance , making a stunning return , but nadal saves again , getting the better of ferrer in the longest rally of the match so far . however , some brilliant efforts to the sideline from nadal eventually ensure that he holds serve , in a game lasting almost 11 minutes !
klizan races to a 40-15 lead , adding another ace along the way , and he seals the game with a well-placed volley from close into the net . nadal may be a break up in this set , but klizan is making the third seed work hard for it .
del potro again lives with djokovic from the baseline before the serb goes for broke and hits wide with a forehand .
a tense opening point ends with federer slicing the ball into the net before the swiss sends a forehand long of the baseline . a love hold is completed with an ace and forehand error from federer . we 've only been playing for just over an hour .
finally a bit of fight from wawrinka ! from 0-30 he takes the game without a deuce , with the final shot - a backhand down the line - his best of the encounter so far . he yells in celebration - that was big .
advantage federer ! the world number two hits some smart shots to take the game and the first set , including a perfect pass shot to go 40-30 up . roger wraps it up with a brilliant forehand shot across court .
tomic turns it up at just the right time and works two match points . he blows the first with a poor shot into the net and brands saves the other with a superb wide ace . the german works himself an advantage but tomic saves that with a spinning forehand that brands nets . a phenomenal points sees tomic eventually go long . tie-break again .
there is no atmosphere whatsoever on the philippe chatrier court , but the crowd come to life when nishikori creates two break points thanks to some big hitting from the baseline . however , nadal begins to show his power , and he qucikly starves off the threat of losing his serve with four points in a row .
what a killer blow ! murray serves to the spaniard 's backhand and his return slaps against the tape outside of the sideline but spins into the court and murray can do absolutely nothing about that .
federer could do with a fast start in this set . after taking the first point , he drills a blistering forehand at nadal for 30-30. but what a mistake on the next ! federer sets up the point beautifully before dumping a drive volley into the net . the point was there for the taking ! nadal then plays the most ridiculous of backhands from the baseline to take the game .
tsonga breaks ! he seizes the initiative in this third set , but there 's still plenty of tennis to be played !
ferrer has his first game of the set after finding some good shots . after taking a 40-15 lead , ferrer takes djokovic out wide before firing a forehand into an open court to claim the game .
gasquet drops the opening point , but replies with two well-directed first serves to earn himself a narrow lead . he reaches two game points , but back from djokovic who , after a delightful drop volley , displays his power off his forehand wing to earn the break .
the answer is a big no as he serves out to love with a couple of aces thrown in for good measure . nadal is struggling , though . he 's just buried his head into his towel and looks to be in real pain . it will be interesting to see his service speed this time around .
ferrer is on the attack , blasting a cross court forehand past his opponent at the start of the game , but the ukrainian keeps the pace up on his serve to secure another hold .
murray caresses a volley over the net to take the early advantage , but a 27th unforced error from murray gives him 15-15. what have we just seen there ? ! federer stretches to retrieve a drop-shot and the ball flies over the head of murray . it 's a miraculous get , one that murray ca n't believe . dangers signs for the scot , and it gets worse when he goes long from the baseline . two break points for federer ! ouch . murray nets , and that could be that .
break and set ! murray benefits from a net cord on the opening point , but wawrinka 's power is out on display once more to get him to 15-15. the world number then concedes a double fault and murray is in trouble at 15-30. an outstanding points brings it back to 30-30 , but wawrinka has set point when murray nets . what a serve ! murray thumps down a huge serve out wide to bring up deuce , but it is set point again after another forehand error . the tension is growing , and despite wawrinka dictating the point , murray plays a fine defensive backhand to force the mistake . a third forehand error from murray concedes another set point , but again , he saves , this time with a drive volley . this is an incredible game , and it 's murray 's turn to miss out on game point . wow ! murray 's looks to have played the perfect serve-and-volley but wawrinka stretches to send a backhand passing shot down the line . fourth set point , but wawrinka goes long ! what an exhausting game , and murray plays a superb slice backhand on the run to force a volley mistake . wawrinka frames a backhand after a 17-shot rally , but wawrinka replies with a return winner . even i need a sit down after this . double fault ! murray sends a second serve long and it 's another set point to wawrinka , but it is saved , again ! wawrinka goes wide with the backhand pass . sixth set point as wawrinka rockets a forehand winner into the corner . this time , after a 16-minute game , wawrinka takes the set after murray goes long . that was a huge game .
almagro again plays a good service game and finishes with an ace - his 15th overall - to edge back in front .
that was very easy indeed from djokovic , who takes the service game to love . that nervy start is long behind him now and importantly his first-serve is looking very good indeed .
no such problems for raonic in this set , he races to a 40-0 lead before smashing and ace past the second seed .
the crowd are right behind falla - they want this match to continue ! a deft volley at the net and a poor shot from wawrinka helps falla reach 30-0 , but the swiss shows a subtle touch at the net to direct the ball past his opponent . the next rally is played at a energy-sapping pace , but wawrinka prevails after falla misses an easy volley . he makes amends with a smash , but a wild forehand keeps wawrinka in the game at deuce . wawrinka produces yet another backhand winner , but falla eventually comes through the game , much to the delight of the crowd .
from 15-40 goffin battles back and wins a superb point with a drop shot that djokovic nets . he then latches on to a djokovic drop to fire a forehand past the serb for an unlikely hold .
lacko makes a composed start to the second set as he tries to get back into the match . federer makes some solid returns to force the slovakian to fight for his points , but he produced some good backhands to edge ahead at the start of the second .
nadal passes the test with flying colours , holding to love to pile the pressure back onto his opponent .
cilic is struggling to get the ball over that net at the moment . he claims the first point and keeps it short in the process , but then hits the tape and sees his next shot fail to make it over . cilic and djokovic both then hit shots long to level things up at 30-30 , before the former misses a backhand with most of the court to aim at , handing djokovic the first break point of the match . the second serve takes a horrible bounce off the line , but djokovic somehow returns it before attacking the net and finishing off the game .
a series of big forehands help klizan to a strong start as he looks to break back , winning the first two points of the game . the slovakian wins a lengthy exchange of ground strokes to leave nadal facing three break points . a mis-hit from klizan allows nadal to save the first , but a superb cross-court effort seals the game for the world number 35 , and gets the fourth set back on serve .
this time djokovic manages to consolidate the break as simon fails to return the first three serves from the serb before slicing a cross-court forehand into the net . the world number two is just one game off a two-set lead now .
benneteau saves a break point to finally hold .
a hold to 15 to begin the second set for nodjo . because of that last-gasp break in the last , he again has the slight advantage of serving first .
stepanek holds to love and for the first time since early on he is cranking up the pressure on the world number one . important service game coming up for djokovic .
a strong succession of first serves see berdych stave off three break points , with tomic simply not afforded the chance to return on any of those three chances . that considerable power on serve has formed the basis of berdych 's game now for quite some time .
a thumping forehand earns simon a vital break and once again the pendulum swings in this all-french clash .
too good from nadal ! it 's as good a return down the line as you 'll see from monfils , but fara is on to it to swipe a forehand right back past him for the point . you have to feel for the frenchman here .
youzhny wins the next four points on the bounce and that 's also four games in a row now for the russian . he 's really fired up and roars his delight as murray 's return drifts long at 40-30 .
double break ! the scot entices robredo forward with a short slice and robredo 's forehand approach is long and surely that 's the first set in the bag .
djokovic sends a forehand pass wide and stan survives on serve to maintain his chances in the third set .
an interesting first game . ferrer holds with some good , strong serves , but djokovic did force the spaniard in to a couple of rallies , where his speed around the court got the better of the fourth seed .
the opening stages of this match has really been a power battle between the two . djokovic races to a 30-0 lead as dimitrov sends two shots out , but he retaliates by levelling the score . the serb then recovered and sealed the game when dimitrov 's baseline forehand crashed into the net .
it 's a slick start from murray . lu is unable to return the opening serve , before the second seed slices a backhand past his opponent . he wraps the game up with an ace followed by a forehand winner .
bautista agut fights hard to take the game to deuce , but ferrer wins advantage in an intense rally . bautista agut tries to take the game back to deuce , but his forehand hits the net , giving ferrer the hold .
an error followed by an ace give the serbian server daylight at 30-15 , but federer responds with a destructive swipe after the game 's best rally to make it 30-30. the swiss follows up the effort with another wonderful shot , this time on the forehand to establish break point . federer falls short after clipping the net for deuce , and hands the game back to his opponent with a terrible backhand on the rise . however , roger thumps another standout shot on the pass to go back to level scores . djokovic fails on a challenge to bring deuce once more , although a further mistake from federer gives him advantage again . more deuce when novak fires deep , before federer powers into middle . novak eventually holds after eight minutes when roger clips wide during a rally .
a nice confidence boost for the world number 36 , with composure on serve earning a comfortable hold under little pressure . berydch looks slightly miffed and starts his next service game by smashing a ferocious serve down the line for an easy point .
he holds with relative comfort . since the end of the first set the swiss has been very good behind his serve and djokovic has had few look-ins .
snap goes the romanian 's serve as federer breaks to 15. the seven-time champ is seeing the ball so well and almost always putting hanescu under pressure on serve .
djokovic continues to serve well and is now just one game from a place in the third round , but he 'll have to up his game if he 's to break stepanek . the czech seems to still have plenty of energy left as he hurdles the net on his way back to his chair for the change of ends .
nadal is beginning to look more comfortable on his service games as he takes the opening point due to a solid serve , but he then shows his frailties by missing a winner down the sideline by overhitting his forehand . two errors from the czech hand the spaniard a game point as he wins control of the court after two tough rallies , while he 's handed the game as berdych 's return is long .
cilic temps tsonga in after a long rally , leaving the croatian to take an opening lead . strong service sees a long return from the frenchman . an ace brings it to 40-0 , before a net-bound return from tsonga brings an end to game two .
murray takes a 30-0 lead , before making federer work hard behind the baseline in a 16-shot rally , but it 's the world number two who takes the point in the end , just finding the sideline with a brilliant forehand . federer looks to recreate the shot on the next point but it goes wide , and a big serve from murray sees the swiss put the ball in the net to give the scot another hold of serve .
it 's a change of shirt for murray , but can it bring a change in fortune ? maybe . federer frames a forehand to make it 15-15 , but maybe not . two super serves bring two easy put-aways , and more aggressive play forces murray to go long . federer has conceded one break point in his last five-and-a-half sets .
a powerful forehand down the line in response to wawrinka 's second serve puts nadal 0-30 up and then a net call goes in his favour to bring up three break points . huge credit to wawrinka , though , as he claws back all three , despite struggling to land his first service in . he then wins the next two points , the last of which was an ace , to open up a one-set advantage in melbourne . he 's broken his duck against nadal - can he win three sets ? !
comfortable hold for murray as the scot takes the first point before moving 30-0 ahead when golubev fires long . golubev produces a fine volley to move to 30-15 , but then fires long to hand murray game point . the seventh seed does indeed take that opportunity with a powerful serve . murray leads golubev .
novak sends federer scrambling on the return to open the scores , but the current champion concedes parity with a scuff into the net . federer inspires himself to produce a powerful ace , before shooting long to make it 30-30. novak seeks out the chip , but federer wins out with a huge smash at the middle . federer takes it to another tiebreak by profiting from novak 's slip .
he 's got it ! federer crashes his favourite out-wide serve inside the box but stakhovsky puts it back in play and federer 's volley is tentative . stakhovsky looks for the pass up the line and although federer gets there his backhand volley is n't over the net .
resilient response by nadal , who holds to 40. djokovic is the much more aggressive player right now , but will he be able to maintain it ? he will have to , because , as we know , nadal is frighteningly consistent .
the games are getting slightly longer , meaning that it can only be bad for both players in terms of fitness . but stan the man levels up the deciding set at one game apiece with an ace to clinch the last point . he 's got a ridiculous amount of aces today . it 's not exactly karlovic levels , but it must be close .
almagro lets out another deafening `` vamos ! '' as petzschner hits long to hand him the break . the spaniard needs to hold serve to bring himself back level at 5-5 and certainly seems fired up to do so . meanwhile , petzschner seemed to crack when he needed a steady head . oh tennis , how you throw up such moments .
a swift and comfortable hold from berydch to start the second set , placing considerable pressure on tomic to respond . that single set point for the australian suddenly seems a long time ago , with the challenge for him to respond now considerable .
robredo is fighting hard as he tries to break back , but he tries too hard and sends a couple of shots long early in the game . however , he persists with his attacking approach and takes the game to deuce . the 32nd seeds forehand creeps just wide , giving his opponent advantage , and ferrer wraps up the game by leaping high to reach the ball for a volley into an open court .
murray floats a couple of verdasco 's forehands back to the baseline before the spaniard pushes a little too hard and hits long .
a messy start to the game from federer gives murray a 30-0 lead . the second seed sends his forehand long to give murray three break points , and takes his frustrations out on the umpire . a long shot from the scot saves the first break point for federer , but then a lazy forehand drifts wide , putting murray a break up in the third set .
there 's the serve we came to see ! two aces give raonic control in this game , and he looks equally comfortable in general play , where he has improved a lot . a brilliant forehand makes djokovic hit it long , and he holds serve .
a closely-fought game sees the score at deuce . tsonga has advantage twice and fails to convert either . federer then gets a break point when his opponent sends a reckless hit well long . tsonga responds with a stunning forehand which just clips the line , before an ace and another big serve which federer ca n't return allows tsonga to hold . a big of a scare for the frenchman , but he comes through it .
you can see from his early shot-making that tomic is playing with supreme confidence . a wide kick-serve is quickly followed by a forehand pass up the line , helping the 20-year-old edge ahead as both players start to find their feet at the baseline in this first set .
the set remains on serve with another easy hold from federer . neither player is yet to take charge of this set . it 's still pretty early in the set , but i would n't be surprised if we 're heading to a tie break .
djokovic 's serve is still far too good for ferrer , the serb has only dropped two points while serving since the start of the match . the top seed finishes the game with another ace .
positive start from robredo as the spaniard moves 15-0 ahead when federer fails to return a serve , before the swiss fires wide for 30-0. fed does move onto the board , however , when his spanish opponent fires a forehand wide . federer then hits long for 40-15 and robredo secures the hold with a fine shot at the net .
new balls are called for and federer claims the first point on serve by whipping a forehand past djokovic , before producing an ace for 30-0. federer then moves into the net , but djokovic fires a backhand past the swiss for 30-15. federer has 40-15 after coming to the net on the next point , but then slices one wide for 40-30. djokovic levels it at deuce in the next point when federer hits a forehand long . advantage goes federer 's way following a brilliant serve and the swiss secures the hold with a quite stunning forehand .
berdych should go 15-0 ahead but he misses a routine forehand , but a successful challenge sees him record an ace for 15-15. unlike murray , he is finally first serves on a regular basis , but at 30-15 , murray reads one to nail the return . it 's 30-30 , but berdych comes through with a forehand winner and when he follows that up with a big first serve out wide , he forces murray to serve to try to stay in this fourth set .
murray matches verdasco in holding to love and the tip-toe nature of this deciding fifth set continues .
the first love game is followed up by the second as fognini recovers well . he played some good shots there and returned to the form from the first set - can he keep it up though and win the break back ?
robredo could be accused of having an over-reliance on stepping around the ball to use his forehand , but he uses the technique to great effect to earn a break point . however , a wawrinka forehand catches the line and after a couple of robredo mistakes , the number eight seed moves one away from the opening set .
pospisil needs to begin this third set in positive fashion , but murray reaches 15-15 with a quite ridiculous backhand winner at the net . pospisil then double faults , before murray chases down a volley to put away a winner . the scot has two break points , but the canadian saves both with first serves . a third takes him to game point , which is taken with a serve-and-volley . big hold .
it takes just two points for federer to find his groove as he powers a forehand down the line , but matosevic replies in kind with a backhand winner . the swiss holds serve easily enough though with a couple of well-directed first serves .
big momentum swing . berdych holds to love . we now have a game on her hands .
a weak forehand from federer barely gets halfway up the net and stakhovsky again moves ahead in the second . the defending champion has a real challenge on his hands here .
djokovic 's dominant serving performance from the first set has certainly not been matched in the second as dimitrov manages to fight back from 40-15 down to deuce for the second game in a row . the bulgarian brings up his first break point of the match , but djokovic is able to save when his opponent loses hit footing behind the baseline , where it is particularly dusty . a dimitrov backhand errors gives the top seed advantage , and he 's able to seal the game when the 11th seed misses a forehand on the next point . dimitrov is looking much more dangerous now , but djokovic is doing just enough to keep himself ahead .
some efficient play from falla quickly takes him to 40-0 , but wawrinka remains in the game by flicking the ball past his opponent at the net . two fierce forehands from wawrinka take him to deuce , and out of nowhere , wawrinka has a break point after falla nets . that 's so disappointing from the colombian , who sends a wild backhand long , and we are back on serve in the third .
two successive double faults set up a federer break point but paire does well to force the swiss wide to save it . he then does well to recover and take the game .
he 's still enjoying himself out there is the czech . he 's also still defending well from the baseline . this time he gets the net cord break and he raises his arms to the heavens . it 's good to watch this . finally , after umpteen advantages stepanek holds . a 14-minute game ! outrageous .
another tough hold , but djokovic manages it despite being well below his best in the game . istomin will be encouraged by his response since the injury , but it 's vital he holds serve here .
what a cross-court forehand from the big-serving isner ! five each .
there have n't been a whole lot of winners lately , but the play becomes a bit more positive when federer uses his skills at the net to move to 30-0. the next two points are shared , before a third ace from federer guarantees him at least a tie-break .
this set deserves a tie-break , and two points from falla get us halfway there . wawrinka then misses out with a passing shot to allow falla to move to 40-15 , and we move into a breaker after the swiss misses the baseline .
routine stuff from djokovic , who holds . one point was a quite spectacular backhand when he was forced back way behind the baseline . that 's what he 's all about - pulling out moments of magic like that when his back is against the wall ( almost literally in this case ) .
three sets , three first-attempt breaks of serve for federer . hanescu just can not get a foothold here .
no problems for federer in his opening service game . he opens with an ace before sending a couple of well-timed forehands past lacko , clinching the game without his opponent taking a single point .
blink and you will miss it , trust me ! another sharpish hold from a-rod .
hanescu gets on the board in the second by just about reaching federer 's drop shot and flicking it into the tape and getting the friendly roll over the net .
lacko saves a couple of break points in a close game at the start of the third set , which he much win to keep himself in the match , but while facing his third break point of the game , makes his first double fault of the match to hand federer the break .
tomic shows impressive powers of recovery to battle back and earn the hold . more chances missed for federer to break the youngster 's serve .
make that three successive breaks of serve in the fourth set as monfils picks the right time to launch a huge serve just inside the line . he now leads 2-1 and looks on course to level the match .
federer gets the break following a lengthy game . a couple of basic mistakes from davydenko gifts the game to federer . the russian will need to hit back quickly to stay in the set .
great athleticism from haase to reach a drop shot and clip down the line . murray gets it back but it 's an easy volley from the dutchman . then a tremendous rally ends after haase goes long going for the winner down the line . you 'd have to fancy murray if the pair keep getting into rallies but haase displays a splendid cross-court drop shot to save the first of two break points . he then volleys long with a poor shot and murray gets the early break .
oh my word . klizan breaks instantly and tsonga has it all to do . are we going to see one of the big shocks on the men 's side of the draw ?
sixth game and a sixth hold . have to say lopez has started this encounter well . murray has rarely looked like troubling him while serving .
wawrinka begins with another brutal forehand from the back of the court before he reaches 30-15 when the wind aids a second serve . he eases through the rest of the game and the pressure returns to federer .
12-2. that 's murray 's record on serve as he holds to love for the first time .
it 's a commanding lead for djokovic now , although it is still just the one break . his response when in trouble on serve has been impressive today . istomin has been his typical inconsistent self , which just is n't good enough against the world 's best .
that 's a shocker from robredo . after getting to 0-15 , he frames a smash , and gasquet converts one of his own to move to 30-15. the number nine seed has began stepping into the court a little more , and it 's paying off , and he holds serve with a blistering backhand into the corner .
andy murray beats benjamin becker
two aces help wawrinka to 30-15 , which soon becomes 40-15 with a delightful forehand into the corner . he repeats the trick on game point and robredo must serve once more to remain in the australian open .
better from murray . the scot serves out to 15 to bring himself to within two games of the final .
berdych opens the game with an ace . djokovic sends back a forehand that catches the net , but berdych is able to rush in to the net to smash a volley past the reigning champion . the serb shows off his sensational speed around the court as berdych tries to find a winner in a rally at 30-30 , before he manages to slot a volley past the world number one . berdych looks a different player in this set .
michael jordan is in the house this evening but federer fails miserably when attempting a slam-dunk smash at the net . it seems to slightly hinder his focus but he soon recovers to hold serve comfortably . matosevic is n't making enough balls from the baseline during federer 's service games .
a serve-and-volley gets wawrinka on his way , but a couple of errors are beginning to creep into his game and federer gets to deuce . wawrinka powers through , but he has called for the doctor at the end of this set .
a big cheer goes up as murray gets a first serve in down the middle and robredo ca n't get a clean racket on it .
wawrinka makes a glaring error on the first point and the danger signs are there when djokovic executes a superb cross-court forehand that passes the swiss at the net for 15-30. that becomes 15-40 when wawrinka miscues a backhand wide of the line , and the world number one breaks through when wawrinka goes long .
nope , it wo n't be costly . ferrer is still serving like a fiend and gets the hold thanks to a wayward tipsarevic forehand .
wowzers . there are plenty of nerves from murray . he 's just completely shanked a second serve . he follows that up with a neat one-two behind his first serve before he sends a serve out wide , also out of the reach of the czech . he opts for the middle with his next serve and it brings the same result for two game points , but after providing berdych with a tame second serve , the seventh seed is all over it . that could be something that we see on a regular basis . berdych gets to deuce with a beautiful forehand winner down the line but a miscued forehand and some phenomenal defensive work helps murray level the score .
djokovic made too many unforced errors in that set , but kohlschreiber played like a man who believes that he can oust the world number one . the serb begins the second set with a love service-hold .
johnson misses the chance to go 15-30 ahead with a shot into the net , and almagro punishes the error by holding his serve . very little in this at the moment , you feel the next break is crucial .
there it is . that , i think , is the end of that as nadal manages the break at a huge time . he 's too good and monfils has not had an answer so far . nadal will serve for the match .
three big first serves pull djokovic back from break point down to level the set . that should give the brit some hope , though .
bautista agut holds serve for the first time in the third set , finding some big first serves to make matters difficult for his opponent , before coming into the net yet again to seal the game with a superb volley .
berdych brings up two break points with a forehand winner . djokovic saves the first with a two-handed backhand which sends berdych the wrong way , before a long return from the czech brings up deuce . the world number one digs deep to force advantage , and gets the hold when the fifth seed sends his forehand long to let djokovic off the hook . that surely would have been the set had he have taken the break .
another forehand error does n't help haas , but his first serve is continuing to help him out of trouble and he quickly gets back to 30-15. however , again , the forehand lets him down at the end of a lengthy rally , before he nets a backhand after a sharp return from djokovic . he saves the break point with a ace out wide , and another powerful serve brings him game point , which he takes by coming out on top with a lob after some impressive defensive work from the serb .
a closely-fought game sees federer bring up break point with a superb curling forehand , which just clips the sideline . however , the game heads to deuce when a quick return from murray catches his opponent out , resulting in a wide shot . the brit takes advantage , landing his forehand just on the line at the end of a 17-shot rally . murray loses his cool when a late call from line judge results in some confusion , with the points eventually being awarded to federer to take the game back to deuce . the fired-up brit channels his anger well , forcing errors from his opponent to take the game .
bautista agut seems to be in control of the game , taking a 40-0 lead . however , ferrer claims a couple of points back by coming into the net , making some stunning volleys . the 25-year-old clinches the game though , deceiving the fourth seed with a drop shot .
janowicz ends the run of five games against him by holding to 30 .
gasquet opens the game with a backhand passing shot , but it 's disaster for the frenchman when he misses an easy smash . some sublime play at the net earns djokovic the next point , before two timely first serves ensures that gasquet must serve to remain in the set .
djokovic somehow affords a wry smile as he is unable to meet a low forehand at the net , with reynolds following up by claiming the hold he needs with a powerful first serve . that effort is enough to force a first-set tie breaker , where anything can happen as we 've seen already this week .
a further hold to love for federer , who now looks to have regained focus in a bid to stop this match in straight sets . four successive points all won with minimum fuss on serve to level the third at 4-4 !
wawrinka 's hitting has been ridiculous at times , and it 's on show again when he smashes a flat forehand past the scot . murray gets back to 30-30 when wawrinka nets , but the game moves to deuce after murray sends a forehand marginally wide . murray eventually holds , but he is clinging onto this set by a thread . he must break here .
sousa holds again ! more whooping from the crowd as djokovic pushes a poor backhand long to bring about game point at 40-30. the serb then shows signs of frustration for the first time in the match , as he smashes an angry forehand return low into the net on the next point .
a lovely lob from tomic is recovered through his legs by brands , but he ca n't keep it in bounds for a tomic break point . a big forehand and a big serve put brands back on top and he clinches the hold with an ace . good determination there .
dimitrov starts with his eighth ace of the match before a forehand wrong-foots murray and he has 30-0. two more points in a row for dimitrov sees him ease to the game .
hats off ( as is literally now the case ) to dodig . that was a superb backhand to get it to 30-15 .
berdych 's sixth ace of the match helps him consolidate his break by holding to 30. federer has only produced one ace so far .
this time it is djokovic who tries the aggressive approach , hammering a few shots onto the baseline before coming into the net . however , his attempted winner drifts just out , while on the next point cilic produces a fine passing shot to take control of the game . djokovic sends one long and has some angry words with himself , but they do n't work as he can only send his subsequent return into the net .
nadal smashes his way to a 15-0 lead , but tomic replies with a stunning return winner . i think that 's his only hope right now . tomic misfires with two baseline shot , but an excellent whipped forehand into the corner keeps him in the game . nadal retains his composure , however , after forcing tomic on the run .
a smash from darcis slams into the net , handing nadal a timely break that he greets with a fierce fist pump . despite a severe test in the last two hours nadal will now serve for the second set , with an opportunity to level the match despite appearing to be in a bit of discomfort .
there 's a little wobble from berdych early in the game , as djokovic goes 30-0 up , but a bad line call followed by a challenge from berdych gives him the momentum to get back in the game . djokovic gets a break point when berdych sends his forehand long , but a big serve has too much pace for the serb to control the return . djokovic wins an impressive rally at deuce to bring up another break point , which he converts with a stunning forehand winner . excellent stuff from the reigning champion .
powerful hitting from youzhny at the start of his service game to go 30-0 up , but he shows his delicate side with a lovely disguised drop-shot . he wins to love and that was impressive from the russian .
just as i say that lopez as lost it he goes and breaks . this time murray whacks a forehand long . that was poor from the scot , who was 30-0 ahead in that game .
game , set and match ! he 's done it ! djokovic had two match points at one point , only for dimitrov to hit an excellent winner to take it to 40-30 , before showing his real talent and potential by smashing his way to a deuce . however , a wonderful backhand from djokovic gave him the advantage before he clipped the net to send a shot out . but he made sure of the win after dimitrov edged a shot out . easy for djokovic .
andy matches jerzy in holding to love . the game is won as the pole dumps a careless forehand into the net . he has to take a little bit of pace off that and get more shots into play .
wawrinka starts confidently in the third , firing down his 10th ace and 40th winner on the way to a hold to 30. in contrast , robredo has made 17 winners .
brands tries to catch nadal out with a drop shot , but the third seed sprints into the net to send it back and take the point . the tall german puts in some big serves , forcing nadal to stand well behind the baseline , and seals the game when the spaniard puts a return long . it 's a solid opening service game from brands .
the indian needs just one of those to get his nose in front in the second set .
no is the simple answer . murray hits with some powerful serve and some big baseline shots to hold to love to level the set . that 's now 28 games without a break .
murray gets on the board with a confident volley at the net and he edges further ahead when djokovic hooks a backhand long of the baseline . it 's 3-0 to murray when djokovic makes another error and that becomes 4-0 when he outlasts the top seed from the back of the court . djokovic reduces the deficit when a second serve from murray is punished , but murray regains the four-point advantage with some brutal hitting .
federer just misses the baseline with a backhand to give wawrinka to early advantage , but three points in a row see him earn 40-15. the game is his when his opponent ca n't return a second serve , and his compatriot must serve once again to remain in the set .
a wide forehand gives murray the match point , but a superb serve from lu forces a poor return from the brit . lu gains advantage when murray fires another return long , and a good forehand ensures that he holds serve again and keeps the match alive .
third consecutive hold to 15 for djokovic . he 's making light work of his opponent so far .
a nice show of quality and character at the baseline helps klizan recover from deuce to hold serve just when he desperately needed to . berydch will have to serve out this second set , but has looked in supreme form this afternoon in that department , particularly with his first serve .
lopez takes the lead with a backhand volley , but djokovic recovers . the spaniard then takes the lead again with a forehand shot across the court , before forcing an error to move to 40-15. lopez wraps the game up with a big serve that forces djokovic into another error .
del potro just ca n't live with the roddick serve again as the american holds . neither men really looking like they 'll crack at the moment . ( when i type that , someone usually cracks . )
goffin manages to find some consistency to take a 40-0 lead , but a good murray keeps the game alive after forcing a mistake from the belgian during a rally , but he ca n't overturn goffin 's lead as the third seed slices his backhand into the net .
hmmm . ever since the ball incident , rola has made four errors in a row . murray has 0-30 , but rola recovers to drill a forehand into the corner . the slovenian is in charge of the next point , but another forehand error materialises and murray has two break points . again , murray only needs the one chance , and he has the break after forcing the mistake out of his opponent .
berdych starts the game well , but he makes an unforced error when attempting to put away a routine forehand . he is overpowering murray though , and he edges to 30-15 with an uncompromising smash . a confident one-two behind his serve bring up two game points , before murray nets a return . this is extremely impressive from the czech .
the opening two points are shared after both marginally miss with attacking shots , before murray edges 30-15 ahead when pospisil miscues a forehand . the game is sealed after two wayward returns from the world number 56 .
after the opening two points are shared , gasquet connects with two big serves , the second of which is an ace , to progress to two game points . he throws down a double fault , but makes up for it with a second ace .
no sign of a mistake from tomic yet on serve , with the australian stepping inside to resist powerful returns from berdych on more than one occasion . the 20-year-old looks very much at home on court one , forcing his opponent to serve for his place in the first set for a second time .
it 's tie-break time as lopez holds . in all honesty it 's a fitting way to decide this set . murray has won the two previous tie-breaks between the pair .
lu 's serve has been up and down throughout the match , but this game was definitely not one of better ones . the 29-year-old struggles to get his first serves in , relying on a fairly safe but slow second serve . the errors make it easy for murray to attack , and he brings up a break point , but lu gets a lucky hit on the net chord to bring up deuce . both players claimed advantage several times , but it was lu who managed to convert , catching murray out with a brilliant drop shot .
an ace sets nadal on the way to a 40-0 lead , which he converts with yet another forehand down the line . the world number one is starting to fire with more consistency now .
just as it looks to be turning around federer puts an unforced backhand right into the net . he does n't have his usual spring about him but somehow returns a huge ace , which takes tsonga by surprise and his shot goes wide . then he follows it with a big inside-out return to bring up deuce , but more big hitting moves tsonga within a game of a two-set lead .
djokovic looks like he 's starting to hit his stride now as he comes inside the baseline to unleash a venomous forehand to the back corner . he 's too aggressive on the next point though as he senses another chance to break , slicing his backhand wide before a forehand gives the finn the lead in the game , and he wraps it up with a well-timed forehand to finally get on the board in this opening set .
brutal hitting from janowicz , as he holds to love . devvarman ca n't cope with his ferocious serve , which is somewhat of a problem if he plans on making the third round .
cilic looks unmovable as it stands as he powers in front at 40-0. marin completes proceedings with an ace that leaves tsonga speechless .
tsonga races to a 40-0 lead with the aid of some big serves . he takes the game with an ace , having barely allowed federer a hit .
once again reynolds has enough to keep the first set on serve , keeping the ball in play consistently behind a strong forehand pass . djokovic you sense is just easing his way into the match , regularly making unforced errors we do not expect to see from the top seed .
rafa 's hitting well now . he holds to 15 .
after both players claimed a point , federer serves smoothly to ease to another hold , while lacko looked jsut a little stiff moving around the court . he 's shown a decent range of shots so far , but is yet to settle on the clay .
kyrgios quickly blasts another two aces past the world number one before making a double fault , but it does n't appear to have fazed the teenager as he completes the game with another ace . nadal just ca n't react quickly enough to his serve .
monfils crumbles as he tries to serve out the match . opening with a double fault , before dolgopolov made some classy returns to get a triple break point . monfils served another double fault to hand his opponent a break back .
`` game roddick '' says the umpire as fognini fires into the net . this would be a very good time for the american to break ...
nadal sets up two break points after winning both exchanges from the baseline , but klizan saves the first with another ace , before saving the second when nadal finds the net on the run . a third break point arrives , but once more nadal nets for deuce two . the spaniard has advantage as he leaves klizan on the deck once more and finally has the break when klizan fires long .
lacko really did n't test the federer serve in the opening set and the pattern continues at the start of the second , as the fourth seed continues to focus his efforts at the net to hurry his opponent , easily holding serve .
trouble for nishikori as he misfires off both wings to give another three break points to cilic . given the way cilic is serving , it 's potentially three set points . nishikori saves the first two before a third is saved with a stunning drop shot from the back of the court . it 's beautiful stuff . however , cilic gets a fourth chance after smashing a forehand winner and the break is sealed when nishikori sends a backhand into the net . it 's going to be tough for nishikori from here .
murray has rediscovered the brilliance that he showed in the first set of this match , racing to a 5-2 lead with an easy hold which included two aces from the british number one . federer is not looking happy with himself at the moment .
it 's a comfortable first service game from djokovic , controlling each point from the baseline . both players are looking sharp so far in this set .
djokovic has found another level in the last couple of days and is now absolutely cruising . he moves inside the baseline to send a backhand past his opponent before smashing a forehand from the net . facing another three break points , sousa tries to keep himself in the set by forcing a couple of errors from his opponent , but djokovic is too good as he wraps the game up with a forehand down the line . it 's difficult to see any way back into this for the portuguese now .
he had to grind it out again , but the swiss holds serve with another good response from being behind in the game . we 're still level .
both men unleash backhand winners to take the score to 30-15 before gasquet catches the line with a serve out wide . djokovic looks in control of the next point , before gasquet lets rip with his favoured shot for the umpteenth time .
djokovic fails to convert his first two of three game points , but he keeps calm and holds to 30 .
djokovic takes the first two points of the game but then suffers a slip himself while trying to come into the net to return a drop shot from the world number 38. stepanek moves well around the court to take the game to deuce , but djokovic hits an ace before stepanek returns the next point to the net to let his opponent hold serve .
it 's a hold to love for murray , who is yet to drop a point in this third set .
djokovic races to a 40-0 lead . ferrer finds a good forehand to take a point from the world number one . the top seed smashes a forehand past ferrer to take the game , but it 's called wide . a challenge from the serbian reveals the call is wrong , and hands djokovic the game .
a sharp return of serve earns djokovic five set points , and a well-aimed serve out wide sees the number one seed seal the first set in 73 minutes .
murray almost pulls of the shot of the tournament so far with a backhand deep into the shadows , but chardy finds his range and opens his account for the match with a huge ace down the middle .
murray is n't fazed , first delivering an ace up the middle before haase wildly slices a backhand miles out . pressure back on the dutchman .
fabulous from the number two seed . robredo attacks the murray backhand and it 's a bad move as the scot picks a crosscourt pass with ease .
nadal holds to 30. he is just one game away from round two .
an easy start for the czech as he comfortably holds his opening service game . djokovic is moving quite well despite his five-hour thriller on sunday .
i think murray has made the decision to attack every second serve , and it pays off during the first part of the game as he gets to 30-30 with a stunning forehand winner . djokovic lands a first serve on the next point but murray drills a backhand passing shot into the corner . it 's a superb shot . djokovic saves the break point though , and two errors from murray hand the serbian the game .
tsonga holds in much more comfortable fashion than the last few games , and federer must serve to stay in the serve . you would expect him to do so , but tsonga has nothing to lose in this upcoming game . he could come out firing on all cylinders ...
nadal gets some luck on the first point of the game as the ball clips the net , but berdych hits back with a winner . both players produce their best tennis to keep the scoreline tied at 30-30 before nadal has his best moment of the match with a forehand winner to bring up a break point . two great serves from the czech keep him at bay , but he produces more magic by staying in the point to force berdych into another error . however , berdych produces another two aces and a forehand winner to secure the vital hold and put all the pressure on the spaniard . what a game !
mathieu responds well on his serve and gets a huge slice of luck with one that clips the net and touches the line , but in truth he deserved that game for some accurate hitting .
ferrer slips at the start of the game , but recovers well , placing a two-handed backhand on the sideline . a long forehand from bautista agut hands the fourth seed a break point , but a poor return from ferrer finds the net . however , the world number five gets another chance , and takes it with a superb forehand to the baseline , and he now has the chance to serve for the opening set .
djokovic is no mood to hang around on centre court , slamming a 10th eighth down for a hold to love . that is nine consecutive points won on serve for the serb , with reynolds really struggling to keep pace now as he remains firmly rooted to the baseline on most points .
the wide serve of berdych is already proving an effective weapon and it 's allowing him to dictate the points . maybe that was something that murray 's former coach dani vallverdu advised his new charge to do against the scot ? murray gets his first point on the berdych serve when his opponent nets , but after an extended rally , berdych holds to 15 with a backhand volley .
in fact , not at all . ferrer wraps up his game as quickly as dodig was in the second . he holds to love and is now two away from reaching the quarters .
wawrinka edges ahead , but two mistakes off the ground give federer an opportunity at 15-30. wawrinka then slices long to concede two break points to the seven-time winner , but both are saved with supreme touch and skill . a second deuce transpires , but wawrinka eventually holds .
it 's an equally impressive start by the belgian , as he takes the game to 40-0 with a series have impressive forehands from the baseline , before sealing the game with a neat volley .
game on ! it 's poor from murray in truth as djokovic gains one of those breaks back . still a long way for the serb to go , but it 's a start .
that 's more like it ! two first serves are returned waywardly by dimitrov before an ace takes murray to three game points . he takes the first when dimitrov goes long , and murray needed that .
two aces and a poor sousa backhand quickly give djokovic a 40-0 lead , and he quickly wraps it up when sousa slices his backhand wide . the portuguese seems keen to use the shot , but it really has n't done him any favours so far .
superb from lopez , who scampers across the baseline to hit a forehand shot across court , before taking a 30-0 lead . djokovic recovers , and an error from lopez levels it up . djokovic takes the lead , before taking the game as lopez struggled to respond to the serb 's forehand shot .
a routine forehand winner sees federer ease to 30-0 , and another unforced error from wawrinka helps his compatriot secure three game points . wawrinka fights back to 40-30 , but a wayward forehand sees federer consolidate the break .
haas is serving to stay in this second set , and it is a shaky start from the 35-year-old , who sends a forehand long of the baseline . he replies well , however , forcing djokovic to net , but the serb responds with an impressive passing shot for 15-30. two errors from djokovic hand haas game point , but he then nets to bring up deuce . this game could go either way , but it 's haas who strikes to bring up game point with a backhand winner . djokovic then goes long with a backhand slice , and we have a tie-break .
harrison catches djokovic out a couple of times with his serve to hold his serve for the second time in this set . djokovic will now serve for a two-set advantage .
that 's a very business-like game from djokovic , nailing three first serves to bring up three set points , and a forehand winner down the line levels the match up .
it takes some textbook baseline hitting to stop murray , but djokovic is strong to hold and level the set . a really good game of tennis , both men are solid .
novak shows his quality already on the return as he sends one straight back down the middle to cramp his opponent . fantastic work again from the serb , who stretches before profiting from a poorly-worked smash from cilic . wow .. more stunning work sees novak cramp his man once more , but this time it is from way deep . triple break point ! djokovic claims the break when cilic pings long from a rally .
now then folks . big response to losing the first set by stan , who wins his first break of serve of the match to move two ahead . that backhand of his is really serving him thus far . that was n't an intentional pun .
murray must hold here to retain his momentum , but a sharp return sees dimitrov get to 15-15. a tense rally comes to an end when dimitrov slices long , much to the delight of murray , but the bulgarian gets back in the game when murray nets . huge point here but what a point ! you could cut the tension with a knife . murray prevails after defending for the entire point but dimitrov nets , and murray has the game when he fires down an ace .
cilic gets one all wrong to hand djokovic the first point of the game , and then hits another long to find himself 0-30 down in double-quick time . there is no time for an unforced error on the next point as djokovic hits an unreturnable forehand , before an ace seals the love game . the world number one is in charge right now .
dimitrov starts the game miles behind the baseline and it allows murray the time to dictate the points and move 30-0 ahead . a love hold is sealed when murray forces dimitrov to go long with a backhand .
and murray only needs one of them as berdych hits long . it was a game full of unforced errors from berdych . he seems to have lost all the tempo that he had during the first set of this match .
despite a classic murray point - driven forehand to the corner and a volley , sousa takes the game with some good tennis throughout .
it 's been remarkable how many times kohlschreiber has received assistance from the net cord , and it helps him set up a tremendous backhand winner . he then engineers another point with a delicate drop shot , but he gets over-confident when firing an ambitious forehand long . his backhand qualities are displayed yet again to move to game point , but he double faults to make it deuce . a lengthy rally results in djokovic earning break point with a winner from the back of the court , and he seals the break when the german nets , and his elated reaction says it all - that could be the match right there .
bang ! an awesome ace from lopez brings about another hold . the crowd are really against murray at the moment and through no fault of his own - for a change !
and hold he does as tsonga thwacks a run-around forehand wide . important moment for gulbis , that .
it 's a sweet backhand now thhat gives roddick the hold . it looked like it could have been out but fognini chooses not to challenge .
the big argentine goes on to hold and establish a 3-2 lead .
murray shows off his pace , traveling the width of the court to make a stunning return for a 30-0 lead . a couple of mistakes from the british number one let federer back in to the game . at deuce , murray sends his forehand return long allowing the second seed to secure the hold with an ace on the next point .
meanwhile , both roddick and del potro hold serve comfortably .
a weighty baseline exchange shows both players have power , but berydch definitely has a clear advantage if the two share a slugfest . tomic has made an assured start though , conceding just one point in another relatively comfortable hold .
a much better service game from tsonga . the frenchman races to a 40-0 lead with some well-placed serves . federer takes a point after sending a brilliant forehand down the sideline , but tsonga clinches the game on the next point .
ebden plants a slice into the net and then a return has the same effect . youzhny 's experience is shining through now .
raonic gets his first game of the set , but federer made him work for it . the canadian raced to a 40-0 lead , but the world number two fought back to deuce , aided by two double faults by the 22-year-old . however , raonic dug deep to serve out the game .
almagro holds , but it 's ferrer who continues to baffle with uncharacteristically poor play . his opponent is n't really having to work very hard for this , although that may seem unfair to almagro , who has played very well .
kohlschreiber moves djokovic around the court before converting a smash for the opening point . a forehand winner then moves him to game point , before he records a love service game after a neat exchange concludes with the german tapping the ball cross-court out of the reach of djokovic .
fabulous from both players as they stretch the whole court before nadal 's on-the-stretch slice does n't quite make it over the tape . great game and a super hold from kukushkin under pressure .
it looks to be a second wind for goffin . he goes up 30-0 as djokovic appears to be struggling with his contact lenses . from 40-0 , however , djokovic picks it up again and pulls back to within a point and then a double fault brings us to deuce . two points later djokovic breaks back with a ferocious forehand that goffin sends long .
djokovic holds , but he was certainly tested there . that game will give a lot of encouragement to the slovakian , who comes out to serve for the first time .
after nearly three hours , we have a break ! and it goes to djokovic . murray nets with a forehand and this will be a massive test of his credentials . djokovic to serve for the set .
in the blink of an eye klizan drops his second service game of the match , wasting a third challenge and failing to keep concentration on serve . just not good enough at this level , with berdych taking full advantage to smash a forehand winner down the line and take complete control of the match .
chardy fluffs his lines with a backhand volley at the net . that gives delpo two break points , and a double fault puts the bow on top of that game for the argentine . maybe that 's the catalyst for a comeback . we 'll see ...
super shot from goffin , who is second-favourite in a baseline point before turning a defensive shot into an unreturnable forehand . djokovic responds with a couple of nice forehands of his own before goffin goes wide with a baseline shot to concede the game . just a hint of a threat from goffin there , though .
there 's no such thing as a comfortable service game for either of these men at the moment . tsonga goes up 15-30 but is then forced into an error by the swiss . tsonga goes long again and federer is ahead in a set for the first time since the first . he has shown fantastic character here .
novak manages his first ace at 30-30 , and then forces the error on his next serve . there was a bit of resistance early on in the game from the swiss , but not enough to really trouble djokovic . both men have served well so far .
dimitrov took the lead in this set at 30-15 but djokovic resumes usual service with a terrific forehand to level things up . the bulgarian did have a chance to get a break point though but fluffed a service return into the net . however he gets the better of his opponent in the deuce to claim a break point .
rochus does well to hold after a couple of deuces , but gruelling service games like that will start to take it out of him i suspect .
three points in a row for djokovic as he deals well with murray 's deep lob , smashing deep to the scot 's backhand that ca n't put it back in play .
a couple of surprising errors from nadal allow klizan to take a 30-0 lead , but the spaniard gets himself on the board with a delicate drop shot . a big serve from the slovakian wins him the next point , before nadal makes another mistake to give klizan the game .
del potro is on the ropes . djokovic holds to 15 .
we 're going to a fifth set !
djokovic drops the opening point of his second service game , and on the second , he hits the deck when losing his footing on the way to the net . it 's nasty fall and he has grazed his arm and cut the top of his hand . ouch . he then falls three break points behind , and although he saves the first , he nets a tame backhand on the second and we are back all square .
a forehand winner moves nadal ahead , and although he gets to 15-30 , he ca n't capitalise after two weak efforts from the back of the court and djokovic seals the game when nadal goes just long with an attempted winner .
the centre court crowd are fully behind tsonga - they want to see some more tennis ! he should have 0-30 too , but he goes wide with an attempted forehand winner . but djokovic is beginning to wilt a little - not much , but enough to make two errors to give tsonga 15-40. the frenchman needs to strike here , but he ca n't convert ! djokovic plays two excellent points , first hitting an ace before forcing tsonga to lob long . the serbian eventually comes through when tsonga ca n't handle a first serve . that was a big hold , and tsonga will have to dig deep to hold here .
so , ferrer eventually gets the hold but djokovic will serve for the second set and parity in this match .
monfils levels the set , sending a fantastic forehand past the ukrainian , who was at the net looking for a volley .
this game goes rather quickly compared to the last one . wawrinka now needs to hold serve to stay in the set .
murray lets out a huge scottish `` come on '' after nailing back-to back aces to hold to 30 .
murray comes into the court in from the baseline to take the first two points , before lu returns the ball to the net . the taiwan player manages to pick out the sideline with a brilliant forehand , but murray wraps up the game with a big serve , which lu ca n't return .
that roddick is rude , giving me no time to settle in ! he 's recorded his first hold of the set to lead 2-1 .
a forehand winner helps robredo to 40-0 , but wawrinka remains in the game with a fine shot on the run . the swiss tamely concedes the game with a wayward baseline shot , and we are into another tie-break .
the young aussie finally loses concentration on serve , rushing a second serve at break point down . berdych sees it coming all the way and takes full advantage , earning the first break from either player to ease ahead in the third set .
nadal serves up the first double fault of the match as the spaniard seems to be struggling to get into this contest . a poor drop shot from the third seed allows klizan to smash the ball past him , presenting the slovakian with two break points , and nadal slices his forehand wide .
it was n't the convincing service game that we expected but janowicz does come through to level up the set .
wawrinka is fortunate to see a miscued forehand return go over the net for the first point , but it fails to derail the fed express who draws two mistakes out of his opponent . wawrinka fights back to deuce , but two accurate serves help the former world number one move to the brink of the last four .
murray deals with the wind better than berdych to open up a 3-1 lead . it really is a lottery out there at the moment as a result of the gales .
ferrer is really hitting his stride on serve , as he wins the game to love . robredo is struggling to get his returns in , and when he does there is little he can do to stop ferrer 's forehand .
double break ! the russian slices into the net and murray will now serve for the match .
that 's how to react ! federer powers through a service game that should slow nishikori 's momentum somewhat .
no sign of nerves on murray 's serve as the british number one holds to 15 .
big hold for the scot , secured by an equally-massive ace .
in the blink of an eye , murray is 0-30 down , thanks in part to a rather wild cross-court shot that flies well wide . then , his serve is not wide enough and djokovic punishes it , bringing up three break points . that 's followed by a smash with murray stranded , which secures the break . that 's three games in a row ( two breaks ) for djokovic and one thing is for sure , murray can not afford to fall two sets behind .
ace seven brings up 40-0 , which quickly becomes 5-5. a huge service game coming up for stan now .
a double fault at a bad time for sousa gifts murray two break points and he gets it with the second of them . an early breakthrough for the brit .
the chip fails for novak as federer responds with a huge smash . the serbian then draws level with a serve that sees roger fend off beyond the remit of the court . a wonderful point is then won by novak as he scrambles at the net to return and send a long past federer , who is caught short at the middle . the scores move 40-30 in favour of the current champion after a few errors and he eventually wins out when federer goes long .
tsonga survives three sets points and holds to 40. at least , if ferrer now holds , the frenchman will serve first in set two .
murray takes the first point on second serve , but the serb responds with two big serves - an ace followed by a swift one-two . very solid from djokovic , who takes it to 15. can murray hold his opener ?
murray gets lucky when djokovic fails to challenge a ball that went out , and a couple of first serves quickly take murray to 40-0. a love hold is sealed with a confident one-two off a first serve and murray has guaranteed himself a second-set tie-break .
the frenchman is down at the back of the court , but it 's just a slip , nothing else . it 's an easy hold for robredo , who drives a backhand cross-court to seal the game .
under pressure kubot finds a first ace down the middle , following that fine effort up with a deep forehand into the corner . janowicz definitely failed to seize that chance , deciding to stay deep at the baseline and ease his way into the match .
there are signs that wawrinka is beginning to tire , but he fires a backhand winner and an ace to get to 40-15. he finishes the game with a forehand down the line , but he does n't look in the greatest of shapes as they sit down at the change of ends .
a hold to love for wawrinka and novak looks stunned . he must now serve to stay in the first set .
excellent baseline play from lu sends monfils running before the eventual backhand winner . he earns two break points from that but only needs one and it 's the very first break of the game ! suddenly lu 's serving for the set to level the match .
kyrgios displaying some real fight . he produces one of the shots of the game to take it to 40-0 , with a splice down the line . he wraps up a love game with an ace .
it ca n't spark anything for the romanian as he mildly nets a simple forehand . federer now within two games of the match and a place in round two .
falla enters the game with renewed optimism , and he is encouraged when wawrinka goes long with a forehand . however , after two quick points from wawrinka , the wind is taken out of falla 's sails after making up a lot of ground on the baseline , and wawrinka is one game away from the third round after a first serve is n't returned .
a strong hold under pressure from tomic to start the third set . berdych is definitely feeling the pace on court one and needs to respond quickly in his net service game , with the czech star currently struggling to deal with the variety shown by his young opponent .
murray begins brilliantly with a one-two and an ace , but ferrer wo n't let him ease to a service hold and the spaniard pegs him back for deuce . that develops into break point for ferrer who executes a stunning backhand drop shot and we are back on level terms after the spaniard constructs a beautiful point to move murray around the court .
novak keeps the steady line of flawless holds ticking along with a game to love . wawrinka is forced to serve to stay alive in the match for the fifth time .
lovely point . istomin defends really well before clipping the top of the net with an attempted pass . it sits nicely for djokovic to put into the open space , and he then finishes the game off for a comfortable hold . this one is only heading one way .
it 's taken about , hmm , 40 games ! but we 've finally seen the first real rally , and it 's worth waiting for , but wawrinka edges it to move to 15-15. a few points later , at 40-40 , wawrinka pulls out arguably the shot of the match , but gasquet brings it back to deuce , before ultimately edged the opening game . that would 've taken a lot out of both players .
simon does well to reach a strong serve early on , but can only find the net and then steps into an adroit forehand to leave federer wanting . the veteran is back on song with a rush to the net and volley , before moving to 40-15 with a punishing forehand that opens up the whole court . he finishes the job with an immaculate ace at 106mph .
gasquet races to a 30-0 lead , before federer responds with a perfectly-weighted backhand shot that bounces and drops before the feet of his opponent . federer then levels it up with a forehand winner , before an error takes gasquet to 40-30. the game is gasquet 's as federer 's return slices the net .
after the opening two points are shared , pospisil sends a weak backhand into the net . the pressure is building and a superb return from murray secures two break points . the first is saved with a big serve out wide , as is the second after the canadian constructs a wonderful point . he 's hanging on in there . the game is saved when murray twice goes long .
a smash and well-directed second serve help the frenchman to 40-0 , before djokovic fires a return long of the baseline to give gasquet the love hold .
very good from fognini , who now leads 3-2 with that hold . roddick has a lot to ponder .
no . murray gets to game point .
a double fault allows gasquet to reach 30-30 , but djokovic pulls through comfortably enough after the frenchman blazes a backhand marginally wide .
the first point from djokovic goes into the net as murray closes down the court , but the world number one responds instantly with an ace out wide . a superb backhand winner down the line and then a powerful cross-court forehand bring us 40-15 , before a backhand smash secures the game . a comfortable start for serb . over to you , andy .
just the start the czech needed ! a few sloppy serves from djokovic help berdych to bring up his first break point of the match , which he converts with some great play from the baseline .
gasquet responds well in this game , forcing federer into three errors to go 40-0 up with some teriffic service . gasquet takes the game in the same form . that was better from the frenchman .
encouraging early signs for wawrinka as he forces the serb to deuce with a thunderous backhand winner . djokovic responds with three aces to hold serve in the opening game .
disaster for matosevic as he nets a simple volley before completely miscuing a drop shot . there are a few expletives coming from the australian now . that only gets worse after he thumps a forehand long , but for the second time in the match , he saves three break points in a row . matosevic then saves a fourth , but he ca n't save a fifth after sending a smash wide of the tramlines . that could be that .
a couple of limp returns from wawrinka make the difference in a close game . he has to return better if he wants to break - and one of them needs to or this set could go on .
positive start to the game as golubev produces his first ace to move 15-0 ahead , before murray hits the net to leave the server with a two-point lead . another net shot from murray moves golubev 40-0 ahead and he closes out the game with a fine volley .
superb from federer , who executes a perfect drop with just the right amount of spin to give gasquet no chance and move into the lead . the frenchman responds with an impressive volley though , before a rare double fault gives gasquet a 30-15 lead . an ace levels it up , before a forehand smash nudges the favourite ahead . the swiss star 's serve proves too much for gasquet to handle , and the final point goes his way . roger 's turning on the style here .
wawrinka creates a break point at 30-40 , but fails to capitalise , but another mistake from federer allows wawrinka a second opportunity . the pair become embroiled in a lengthy baseline exchange , but wawrinka takes his chance when federer goes long .
after opening up a quick 40-0 lead , djokovic looks to take the game with a drop shot , but the speedy berdych rushes to the net to make the return . djokovic finds a winner on the next point though , and is looking good for a 2 sets to one lead .
it 's a good rally , but you fancy novak every time in one of those . istomin tries to force the issue but puts a backhand wide to undo all his early good work . advantage djokovic .
meanwhile , ferrer continues to serve strongly as he holds to love once more to get this third set underway .
wawrinka is furious with himself after netting from the baseline , but he regains the mini-break when robredo goes long . the swiss senses blood and he batters robredo with several huge forehands before another gets the job done . it 's three set points to the swiss , and the first is taken with a routine volley at the net .
djokovic will be eager not to let his advantage slip this time , and a couple of well-worked points give him 30-15. he then connects with a first serve down the middle and he has two game points , before moving one away from the semi-finals with a smash .
well , almagro is determined not to make it easy for nadal today , and he makes some stunning returns to give himself three break points . nadal tries to put his opponent under pressure with a big serve , but his compatriot makes another good return , giving him the game as nadal slices the ball into the net . that 's the first time nadal has dropped serve , but almagro will still have to hold next to prevent the defending champion from wrapping up the set .
murray 's back is causing him trouble , and the pain is made worse when two forehand errors hand 0-30 to federer . it soon becomes 0-40 when murray plants another forehand long of the baseline . this could be the moment . murray connects with two first serves , but federer breaks ! murray does brilliantly to remain in the rally for as long as he did , but federer eventually flicks the ball into the open court .
berdych wins four consecutive points to hold from 0-30 down .
strong hold from murray as the scot races into a 30-0 lead with a couple of powerful serves , but golubev continues to impressive with a brilliant drop-shot at the net . golubev then fires wide , but murray follows suit moments later . the scot does manage to hold , however , when golubev hits another one wide .
wawrinka responds with a comfortable hold of his own . much more like it from him , and djokovic would be a bit disappointed with his returning .
nadal may have held , but it was no means a gimmie as wawrinka forced deuce . however , the world number one has a big problem with his back , which forced him to slow his serve right down . he 's now taken a medical time out off the court to receive treatment . this was not publicised before the clash , so we have no idea how serious this is .
more inventive play sees the world number 135 take the first set in quite stunning fashion . nadal is left chasing a volley at the net in vain and concedes the first set to the belgian underdog . do we have a major upset brewing on court one this afternoon ?
some crushing serves from federer sees him easily hold his serve , and is now just one game away from taking the first set . any struggles he was having a few games ago seem to have left him .
djokovic replies with two big first serves to open up a 30-0 advantage before executing a one-two behind his first delivery . this is perfect tennis . a love hold is sealed when murray catches the net cord which takes a forehand wide of the line . murray will now serve to stay in the match .
brands gets his first point against the nadal serve since the opening game following a wide forehand from the spaniard . however , a series of poor returns allow nadal another easy hold of serve , sealing the win when brands puts the ball into the net . brands may be holding his own well on his own serve , but he has n't really caused any problems during nadal 's service games yet .
just what a doctor ordered for novak there . he comes to the net on the final point to direct a volley on to the line , which stan can not get back over the net .
klizan takes the first point and the crowd get right behind him chanting `` martin '' . nadal responds with his second ace of the match , before klizan finds the net while sliding along the baseline . the spaniard seals the game with another big serve , which his opponent ca n't return , and is just one game from leveling up the match .
all too easy for the seventh seed on serve , as he gets the benefit of a fortunate drop at the net to close out a wonderful point featuring lobs and slices aplenty . berydch apologises quickly but does n't look very sorry , crashing a first serve in to take another hold to love .
it was n't pretty from fognini but he has managed to hold . do n't be surprised if this goes into a tie-breaker .
so far , we 're with serve and both men are playing well with the balls . there 's the best and worst of monfils in consecutive points , as he wrong-foots nadal to set up a winner before planting the next backhand into the tramlines . however , he gets advantage at deuce and finishes the point with a wondrous backhand just over the net and across the court .
ferrer shows a bit of fight , taking a 30-15 lead having been boosted by winning a hawkeye review . however , djokovic fights back , taking the game with some brilliant forehand strokes , and he 's just one game away from a two-set lead .
a couple of unforced errors from federer and some more balanced play from davydenko sees federer have to work to hold his serve . however , the number two seed 's serve carries him through .
or not ... federer moves out in front of stan 's service with the help of a huge forehand winner to capitalise from some early errors from the 30-year-old . stan produces back-to-back aces to give himself a chance , and he brings back deuce when federer fires long . parity continues for a while , before stan finally makes his move to close out a very important hold . federer will be annoyed , surely ?
nishikori takes the first point , and shows plenty of promise during the following rallies , but he still finds himself game point down . he then makes the mistake of leaving a nadal passing shot , which drops into the far corner .
good serving from stepanek and more strong net play moves him 40-0 up . he hits the net , but wraps up the game comfortably . this has a similar pattern to the first set now .
now , far be it from me to accuse djokovic of over exaggerating an injury , but there was no sign of a limp in that game as he started to win points ! in the game before , he looked to his box to suggest that he was in trouble , yet he 's broken back ! it was a poor game from murray as well , who may have lost some concentration .
nadal serves up a double fault early in the game , but recovers with an ace before kyrgios hits his forehand to the net and the world number one wraps up up with a forehand winner . the second seed can level the match if he can break the australian in the next game , although he has n't had a break point yet today .
wawrinka starts the third with a routine hold . all of a sudden , this next game is vitally important for federer . over on philippe chatrier , tsonga has taken the second set 6-4 to move into a 2-0 advantage .
the swiss is really in his stride now . another forehand winner brings up 30-0 , and that is quickly followed by an ace . a shot into the net keeps robredo interested , but another ace consolidates the break .
nadal starts well against the brands serve with a cross-court forehand , but the world number 60 responds well , sending down a rapid ace . a double fault brings up two break points for nadal , but brands saves the first with a swift forehand , but gets stuck at the net during the second , allowing nadal as easy chip past him to take the game .
federer looks comfortable in the opening game of the set , easily holding his serve . a looping forehand from tsonga allows the world number two to smash a high volley past the frenchman to take the game .
robredo with one flash of brilliance but that 's all as murray holds to 15 and will now look to snap the spaniard 's serve for a fifth time this evening .
ferrer eventually holds after coming into the net and whipping a forehand down the line . it was a poor drop shot from nishikori and the fifth seed duly punished him .
it was the thumb in the first set , now djokovic is complaining about his ankle ! it certainly seemed to hamper him in that game , with three unforced errors giving murray the early break that he craved . djokovic has n't called for the trainer yet , but he 's limping out there . now is the time for murray to capitalise .
nice and simple from almagro as an ace gives him the hold of serve .
that 's the wawrinka that started this match ! he 's picked up the pace from the baseline and dictated the majority of those rallies as he broke with nadal on 15. the point that secured the break saw him play an unstoppable forehand down the line . he 's now just two games away from his first ever grand slam title . it 's a test of his nerves .
a bold serve by haas pays off and he claims a second-serve ace . i ca n't say i 've seen many of those . he 's really scrapping here and finds the line with a forehand winner before wrapping the game up with a wide serve returned into the net .
the pole holds serve to move ahead for the first time since the first set .
an easy hold for gasquet . tsonga challenges the final point , but is again unsuccessful .
nadal starts the game poorly , quickly falling to 40-0 down after some mishit groundstrokes . he recovers to 40-30 , but ca n't take it to deuce as kukushkin finds a big serve that nadal ca n't return .
a super exchange has both players racing across court but wawrinka keeps his cool to thunder home a backhand winner and collect a double break . this is very impressive stuff from the swiss underdog and we have a real match on our hands here .
a real see-saw of a game eventually goes petzschner 's way as the german holds . both players were keen to do their jousting at the net there . petzschner rather amusingly hit home a winning volley before sitting down in his chair all in one movement . the crowd seem to be on his side now .
gasquet quickly falls 0-30 down , but a slip from djokovic and a sharp backhand volley help him retrieve the situation at 30-30. a second-serve ace takes him to game point before the hold is confirmed when djokovic misses a routine forehand .
the spaniard recovers from that though and holds to 30 with a second ace of the game .
wawrinka gets the opening point with a terrific serve before falling behind to 30-15. however , nadal spurns an effort into the net from the baseline , as the swiss sets his sights on a first game . the two then trade powerful winners to send the game into deuce . wawrinka takes the advantage before forcing nadal to set him up with a simple backhand to take the game .
powerful play for the serbian sees novak move 30-0 ahead as federer makes his fifth unforced error of the game . smart service then allows djokovic to go further in front when federer chops a return wide . federer sets up a clever point with a lob and rush , but the game vanishes not long after as he cannons into the net on the backhand .
that was not the time to be broken to love , but that is the position that wawrinka finds himself in . he was on the cusp of glory , but an error-strewn service performance resulted in nadal claiming that break back at the first time of asking . the spaniard did n't even have to produce anything special during that game , which will be the most frustrating factor for wawrinka . will he rue those errors ?
tsonga looks in control at the start of the game , quickly taking a 40-15 lead , but a drop shot from the belgian leaves the sixth seed sprinting into the net , almost colliding with a ball boy . the world number 83 forces the game to deuce , but the frenchman takes advantage when goffin hits the ball into the net . a lively exchange at the net sees the game head back to deuce , but a brilliant sliced volley gives tsonga another chance to win the game , which he does with a big serve followed a volley .
murray takes the first point after some fine coverage at the net , and the scot has 15-30 after the swiss frames a forehand from the baseline . but that 's poor from murray , who floats a second-serve return over the line . he shouts `` stupid ! '' at himself . he was right , too . two more mistakes from murray gift the game to his opponent .
well the knee certainly does n't seem to be troubling stepanek as moves around behind the baseline effortlessly to ease through the first game of the first set . he 's sticking with his tactic of coming into the net once in a while to keep the top seed on his toes , and it seems to be working well for him at the moment .
monfils secures the first hold of serve in six games , and must now be favourite to take the third set .
federer kicks off the third set with a forehand pass , before gasquet recovers despite some good work from the swiss to hit a lob from the baseline . another forehand is well placed by federer to move ahead , before yet another ace . the game is federer 's with another forehand winner . superb stuff from the world number two !
matosevic is n't having much effect on the federer serve but despite losing his serve in that opening set , he still looks strong behind his own . a backhand winner and an ace down the middle helps him hold to 30 .
murray will see that as a missed opportunity , but he must re-focus as a slack service game here will see him lose the set .
nieminen 's focus seems to have dropped , allowing djokovic to attack on the return , forcing three long balls in a row from the finn to bring up a chance for a double break for the serb . nieminen sprints along the baseline to try to keep himself in the game , but djokovic hits another potent overhead smash to secure the game . he 'll be serving for the set next .
there were serious questions asked of djokovic during that kevin anderson match in the last round - and indeed after the french open - but he is looking in increasingly good form here . cilic makes him wait to seal the match by storming back from 0-30 down to hold , but you get the feeling that he has merely delayed the inevitable here . the croat has not had a break point yet , and now he must win against djokovic 's serve to stay in this match .
it 's looking very comfortable now for federer as he swiftly wraps up another service game to love .
nadal finds himself under a bit of pressure at 15-30. however , he then switches to ultra-agressive mode , displaying expert agility at the net and holding to 30 .
del potro holds to 30 , courtesy of a very favourable net cord . he raises his racquet in offer of apology . djokovic 's eyebrows suggest that he is far from impressed .
harrison has been struggling to return djokovic 's serve well in this match , but after watching the serb 's seventh ace pass him he made a fantastic return to keep himself in game , before losing out as djokovic sent him out wide .
djokovic roars at the sky . he knows how big that was ! he breaks at the right time and we 're surely now going to five .
nadal breaks : two more ugly errors from harrison . not only has his serve been broken , it appears nadal has broken his spirit too .
djokovic needs to steady himself here because haas is threatening to change the course of this set . he is successful in moving to 30-0 , and he achieves game point when haas sends a forehand return long . that 's a terrific shot from djokovic to conclude the game , driving the ball to the far corner of the court .
confident start to the game for klizan as he forces nadal to fire wide from the baseline , but klizan then nets for 15-15. klizan fires wide in the next point to hand nadal 15-30 , before the spaniard produces a wonderful block to move 15-40 ahead . nadal was on the ground , but managed to rise to his feet and play a winner - incredible tennis . nadal then fires long for 30-40 , but secures the break when klizan nets .
malisse produces arguably the shot of the match with a running forehand pass but it 's in vain as he hits the next return long .
oh my lord ! murray has broken again . djokovic has looked tired all set and finds the net to leave murray three games away from his maiden slam . do not mess this up now muzza !
djokovic eases into a 30-0 lead before golubev fires a scintillating backhand passing shot down the line . that shot draws applause from djokovic , who serves and volleys on the next point before directing a forehand into the corner to take the game .
at 30-0 , djokovic reminds people that he is still human behind his first by netting a forehand and all of a sudden , wawrinka has 30-30 when crushing a backhand down the line . that becomes break point after djokovic misses with a similar shot , and the swiss takes it when djokovic concedes a double fault ! remarkable stuff .
murray uses his full range of shots to bring up two break points . federer smashes the ball in to the open court , murray gets to it but his return finds the net . the second seed sends the scot out wide , but murray recovers well to make the return , but it 's a fraction wide , taking the game to deuce . the swiss finds a couple of well-placed serves to take the hold . murray 's let him off the hook there , he would have been serving for the set next if he 'd managed to get the break .
murray brings up set point with a forehand that , in honesty , dodig showed to him .
the number 11 seed is there for the taking . evans must strike here , and two more errors from nishikori makes his time much easier as he moves to 40-0. the japanese looks dejected after he drives another forehand long of the mark , and evans has just won eight points in a row .
djokovic is becoming increasingly reliant on drop shots and it does him no favours during the first part of the game . he 's struggling to hit through his opponent but a couple of mistakes allow him to hold .
an inconsistent game from youzhny . he follows a weak forehand that ends in the tramlines with a fantastic dipping backhand pass . however , he does enough to race into a 17-minute 4-0 lead .
del potro using his trademark meaty forehand to grind roddick down there and hold . roddick serving to stay in the set .
there 's a sense that chardy has given up the ghost here . he 's offering no resistance to the murray serve and a routine hold to love for murray brings up the first of the set . perfect start to the third .
cilic easily brings up 30-0 but the deficit is halved to the delight of the new york crowd as nishikori forces cilic to net . however , the 14th continues to show no mercy with his serving and forehand and he holds once more .
lopez has only himself to blame again as he double faults to handle murray the break . the scot is firmly in control now .
brilliant break from murray . he attacks the chardy serve on the last point , sending him right then left before finishing up at the net . superb all-round tennis from the third seed . he 'll serve for the match now .
lu takes the opening point of the game after getting the better of murray in a long rally , and secures a 30-0 lead with a brilliant overhead smash . lu continues to play some solid shots from the baseline , and seals the game when murray hits his backhand to the net . it 's a good start for the player from chinese taipei .
the frenchman is controlling what he can by staying strong on serve , with particular attention paid to placement behind his second serve . benneteau holds a narrow 3-2 lead in a set he must win , with neither player threatening a breakthrough so far in the third .
positive start from klizan as he moves 0-15 ahead after matching nadal from the baseline , before 0-30 arrives when nadal fires long . nadal moves onto the board in the next point , but then fires long for 15-40. klizan secures the break when nadal nets .
evans is playing that well that you have to wonder why it took him so long to channel the right attitude into his game . a deep backhand sets up a drive volley at the net for 30-0 , and he takes the game to 15 when nishikori struggles to handle a second serve .
it looks like the brands bubble may have burst . although his serves still have plenty of power behind them , nadal seems to be more confident making the returns , and he quickly finds himself with a break point .
tipsarevic misses an easy passing shot by his standards . he responds though , with an ace and a powerful forehand , to win his service game .
an easy start on serve for murray sees him comfortably take the game . a correction from the umpire in the scot 's favour is met with irritation from federer , but he lets the call stands and does n't challenge , giving murray a 40-15 lead , before missing the return against a big serve to give murray the game .
monfils still refuses to give up , despite his clear injury . he has always had injury troubles and they have struck again here in the second round of the australian open .
murray holds , more comfortably than for a while , but you feel the serbian was conserving a little energy for the push on his serve here . murray could n't ask for more at this point than forcing djokovic to serve it out and now he has to hope for a chance .
cilic cracks ! the croatian double faults and we 're back to 5-5. murray won four straight games and is right back in this .
big start to the match for almagro . over to janowicz , who has a monster serve .
the trainer was called to give wawrinka some eye drops , but all that appears to be dealt with now . they seem to have had a detrimental effect though because the swiss proceeds to make two mistakes to gift djokovic 0-30. we are then treated to the rally of the match with djokovic being forced to all areas of the court but he comes through to earn three break points , the first of which is taken when wawrinka lashes wide .
djokovic starts with an ace , before raonic goes long with a backhand . another wayward shot from the canadian and a neat forehand give djokovic the perfect start .
now then . a clever lob from robredo forces wawrinka to net for 30-30 , and although wawrinka creates a set point , he misses it , and two mistakes in a row , both on the forehand side , allow robredo to break ! we are back level in this second set .
got him ! after a 12-minute game the first break goes the way of murray as berdych hits wide .
that could be the key game for verdasco . he battled his way to a break of serve and can now reply on his own to see this out . the way this has gone , though , there could still be a twist .
del potro saves a fourth break point with an unreturnable serve before coming through as djokovic hits wide with a forehand .
three huge serves quickly take tsonga to 40-0 , and a love service-hold is completed when djokovic sends a return wide .
there 's really very little competition on either serve . rallies are n't lasting very long and there 's a lack of urgency for both men to go for the break , even though it 's becoming very important . two tie-breaks already , maybe they want a third ?
dolgopolov picks out the sideline with a superb forehand , but ferrer is able to make the return . a long forehand from ferrer allows the 26th seed to edge ahead though , and he clinches the game with an ace .
murray limps one into the net and djokovic takes the second ! just as djokovic edged the first set and lost it , the same has happened to murray . could those three break points in the second game of the set come back to haunt him ? absolute deadlock this is .
a much easier service game for djokovic this time . the world number one faces little resistance from berdych as he races to a 40-0 lead before smashing a winner past his opponent .
another simple hold for the four-time champion , who races through his service game through big serves and clever rallies . raonic is a big man , and he is n't too comfortable running from side to side . djokovic is exploiting that , and raonic will now serve to stay in the set ...
smart work from the australian sees him move into a 40-0 lead , but murray grabs his opening points by forcing an out error at the baseline . the scotsman takes it to 40-30 as kyrgios gives him a pass . however , the 19-year-old takes the game as murray is forced into a backhand error .
davydenko raced to a 40-0 lead before federer fought back , winning a high-paced rally with a cross-court backhand . despite dropping a couple of point , davydenko holds his nerve to take the game .
berdych takes a 40-0 lead , but a double fault lets djokovic back in the game . the czech comes in to the net again for a volley , and the world number one tries to lob the ball over his head , but puts too much power in to the shot , and it goes long .
more brilliant defence from nadal , but this time fognini wins the point and plays to the crowd afterwards - that 's how good he needs to remain . nadal follows up with a quite incredible defensive lob that lands right on the line . fognini hits the net a couple of points running and is starting to berate himself . he 's hit 31 winners , the italian , but has been just too inconsistent , however he somehow saves several break points to hold serve .
stakhovsky 's level is n't dropping quite yet . a 14th ace of the match sees him hold again .
ferrer tries a drop shot , but bautista agut manages to make the return , and just finds the baseline . a cross-court forehand from ferrer strays wide , giving the world number 60 the change to get the break back , but ferrer patiently builds a rally before firing a backhand winner past his opponent . bautista agut gets another break point , and this time he takes it with ferrer pushing his forehand just wide .
haas holds well , finishing off the game with a classic serve and volley perfectly fitting of a 34-year-old .
another hold for istomin and he wo n't give up the fight easily . it has n't been the most competitive of contests , but he 's played his part in the third .
ferrer still scrapping away at the back of the court . he forces tipsarevic from one corner to the other before unleashing a volley that gives him the hold . which way is this one going ? your guess is a good as mine .
novak opens up positively when serving for the match with a shot that sees a long return from federer . the serbian champion makes it 30-0 with a fierce shot that leaves roger nowhere to be seen . federer falters off his backhand with another unforced error , leaving djokovic to take the third with a commanding smash winner .
we 're all level again , my friends . richie executes a beautiful drop shot to move 30-15 ahead ! make that two beautiful drop shots , as he executes another to level up the set at four games apiece . the last one made wawrinka slip . he 's making stan go to ground more than ashley young here .
nieminen works a chance for a break , but haas swats it away with a powerful serve and finish . the german then gets his own chance on advantage but nieminen emphatically returns it to deuce with an early passing shot . a haas drive volley goes long and he then slices wide to put nieminen back in front .
even if it 's just to get a rhythm back before a fifth set , djokovic needs a hold here and at 30-0 , he is halfway there . like in the previous game though , wawrinka is going for his shots and he hits a cross-court forehand to reduce the lead , but djokovic holds to force his opponent to serve for the fourth set .
no sign of a reprieve for tomic on the federer serve as the swiss seed holds quickly . he is now just two games away from wrapping up a straight-sets win .
the world number 135 continues to show surprising variety and composure on serve , quickly producing the first hold to love of the match . we are fast approaching the business end of this first set , can darcis continue to push nadal when the pressure heightens ?
a love-hold for del potro and this second set has taken on a similar pattern to the first . neither man offering much to their opponent on serve .
federer blitzes his way to 40-0 , although nadal nearly takes his head off with a thunderous shot from the baseline . the swiss remains unfazed and nadal is unable to return a serve to give federer the opening game .
nishikori looks tired out there . ferrer is looking more and more comfortable on serve now and he needs just one more game to take this opening set .
djokovic is starting to try some more ambitious shots as he seeks to wrap this set up as quickly as possible , but a couple of loose forehands give sousa a chance to get a break back . djokovic fires an ace past his opponent to save the first , but his backhand drifts just wide while looking to save the second , giving sousa his first game of the match .
murray blasts a backhand long on the first point of the game , but it 's a ridiculous response - he lands with the most audacious of pick-ups at the net for 15-15. ridiculous . murray has 30-15 , but on the next point , he chooses the wrong shot at the net and djokovic takes advantage . it 's 30-30 , but murray executes the perfect serve out wide for game point , which he seals with a 129mph ace out wide . we are heading into a tie-breaker .
goffin gets a bit of luck at the start of the game as he gets a lucky hit on the net chord the claim the opening point of the game . the belgian uses the momentum to take the next point as he moves swiftly around the court , before a punchy forehand to the back of the court gives goffin his first break points of the match . having looked a little flat at the start of the game , murray manages to find his form to take the game to deuce , before two long returns allow murray to escape with his serve intact . that will be a big blow for his opponent .
break point murray . can he take this one ?
the scot does manage to hold though as verdasco hits a forehand into the net .
ferrer races into a 40-0 lead with some faultless tennis , and although murray gets back to within a point , he sends a return long to see ferrer remain competitive in this second set .
federer holds comfortably to love as he continues to retain serve in this set . the former world number one has played solidly apart from that one game where he dropped serve . he wo n't be panicking too much at the moment .
a fifth ace of the match for tsonga sees him hold to 15. the variety of serves in his locker makes it extremely tough for gulbis or anyone to break .
berdych has definitely improved in this set and he prevails after a lengthy baseline exchange for 0-15. murray responds with a stunning forehand winner , but he 's fortunate to survive when berdych misses with a makeable return . a 12th ace takes murray to two game points before he 's perfectly accurate with a backhand down the line .
amazingly , murray will serve for the match after angrily blasting a high forehand return onto the line for a clean winner at 30-40 . 8.20pm haase attacks on the return at 15-15 and finds a winner . two more like that and we 'll be in a tie-break . 8.20pm terrible forehand from muzza and haase has two break-back points ... 8.21pm murray saves the first with a looping serve out wide that haase can only hit way long on the return . 8.21pm drama ! haase 's return is called long , but he challenges and indeed it was in . `` replay the point , '' says the umpire . haase is in control and has an easy volley for the break , but puts it into the net . 8.23pm another break point for the dutchman after a gripping point that seemed to last for an age . the second-longest rally of the match . 8.24pm murray 's shoulder is really hurting on serve now , but somehow he saves the break point with a backhand winner . can he see this out ? 8.25pm match point murray ...
another break point is saved ; this time with some good defensive slices from the baseline to force ferrer to net . then ferrer looks to dominate a point by coming to the net , but finds the ball over his head from a lob that 's perfectly in court from dodig . he then holds with ferrer netting a return . good tennis so far .
raonic thinks he has won the first point when he smashes a forehand at novak 's feet , but the world number one whips an even better shot back across court which forces an error . two raonic more errors give the serb three set points , but he only needs one as he tucks away an over-head . raonic is in deep trouble now ...
djokovic has 0-15 when federer slices one long of the baseline , but federer answers straight back with a stunning backhand . federer then hits the net , however , to hand novak 15-30 , before clipping a volley just long to hand djokovic two break points . roger saves the first of them when djokovic kisses the top of the net , before saving the second with a brilliant forehand for deuce . djokovic then hits another pass to gain advantage , but roger is straight back after coming to the net . federer gains advantage with another whipped forehand , but once more , djokovic is back at him with a forehand of his own for deuce three . eventually federer does hold when djokovic hits the net before firing wide .
once again janowicz is able to build momentum after saving break-point chances . precise shots at either side of the court prove too strong for kubot , who is now staring down the barrel of a two-set deficit .
tsonga explodes into life from the baseline with a forehand winner , but djokovic records four points in a row to take the game . not many rallies to speak of so far .
murray powers down an ace for 15-15 , but the crowd are on their feet for a simply ridiculous backhand half-volley from federer . it was sublime . however , the scot secures a huge hold of serve , recording three successive points with an ace taking him back to within one of the swiss .
despite being a break down , wawrinka comes back into the frame with some dominant service games . he climbs back at 3-2 after five following some brutal forehand and backhand work . roger played his part too , coming unstuck on both the back and fore during that mini battle .
back on service , cilic is undone by a huge one straight back down the line from djokovic : a real beauty of a shot from the serb ! he still can not find his range and djokovic sends one deep , resulting in a tame return into the net . djokovic offers up a free point into the mesh , before firing a return long at 30-30. novak has all the answers , however , as he powers something strong into the chest of an on-rushing cilic . the serb then takes his second break in a row as the croatian double faults . this could get ugly , folks ...
nadal holds to 15. he leads 3-0 in the fourth and , after 193 minutes of play , the finish line is finally in sight for the world number one .
giant roar from centre court as murray opens up game point with some accurate forehands to both wings . he holds on the next as janowicz nets and that 's a massive moment in this match .
nadal looks like he could be on his way towards a second break as he returns brilliantly to secure the first two points of the game , but almagro shows that he has plenty of fight left in him as he delivers some powerful serves , forcing a run of returns to the net from the sixth seed . that could be an important hold for almagro is he 's to stand any chance in this second set .
gasquet hits the net with his return and it 's enough for stan to move 2-1 ahead . there were one or dicey moments , and gasquet looks a contender for another break when the score is 30-30 , but the swiss holds his nerve , and his serve , to edge ahead in the game . and the match now of course . still a lot of tennis to be played .
ferrer is starting to get the better of baghdatis now , and a three-game lead puts him comfortably in control of this set . his pace behind the baseline is too much for the cypriot .
make that seven games in a row for nadal as he unleashes a backhand winner down the line . he 's in complete control on centre court .
stakhovsky continues to offer federer little chance of a break on serve , holding to love impressively .
the serbian march of progress continues unabated as novak cruises into a 40-0 lead back on his serve . the hold zips by without notice when djokovic fools cilic with a delightful lob from the net .
tsonga is gliding around the court at the moment , making brilliant shots from all over the place ! federer will have to serve to stay in the first set again .
djokovic is showing no signs of any aches or pains from sunday as he comfortable takes his opening service game . a solid start from both players .
djokovic responds with a couple of fine aces to hold comfortably for the third time in this set . he needs two more games and the way he 's playing i would n't be surprised if he won the set 6-1 .
special hands from kyrgios who makes it 40-0 with a chip across the court . game is called with a standout ace . these games are rattling past us . can the aussie break to take the set ?
stunning backhand work keeps stan 's hopes alive as he moves 15-0 in front , before a standout whip on the forehand makes it 30-0. at 30-15 stan comes up short with a return that flies out the back to draw the scores level . gasquet is stifled at the net on set point as stan wrestles things back to deuce . another first strike from gasquet brings back the advantage and he wins the set when stan pings long .
federer with what seems an easy chance for the drop shot - but he hits the net ! the swiss recovers with a volley , before an ace moves him 30-15 in front . gasquet recovers as federer hits a backhand shot beyond the tramlines , only for the frenchman to then do the same . federer brings deuce with a sloppy backhand that lands beyond the baseline , but takes advantage with a backhand drop at the net . a forced error after a big serve gives federer the game .
youzhny holds on , just . he came to the net at 40-30 and murray 's first backhand forced a tough volley from the russian . he presented murray with a simple passing opportunity but the scot 's backhand did n't even get over the net .
wawrinka finds the line with a winner for 15-15 , but he shanks a second-serve return to give murray a little bit of breathing space . the scot needs it , after another volley at the net has murray on the run to no avail . i 'm running out of superlatives to describe wawrinka 's shots in this match - he cracks a backhand from behind the baseline for deuce . murray then nets an easy put-away , and it is break point to wawrinka . dear oh dear ... a double fault from murray and that could be that .
with the crowd getting on his back , cilic could do with winning this match here . after the first two points are shared , nishikori finds the corner with a forehand winner but cilic has 30-30 when the japanese marginally misses the baseline with a backhand . big moments here , but nishikori serves out the game to put the pressure on cilic .
ferrer claims the opening two points of the game , but his volley attempts clips the net while trying to bring up break point . bautista agut levels the game on the next point with a more fortunate contact on the net chord , before clinching the game with two impressive aces . the 25-year-old may be looking tired , but he certainly has n't given up .
berdych 's 11th ace gives him another comfortable hold . a federer comeback is looking far from likely .
almagro forces the issue with some good baseline shots and an effort from johnson that hits the frame of his racket gives the spaniard two break points . he 's long with the first and after some really aggressive tennis johnson plops an attempted drop-shot into the net .
fognini wins the first point with a drop shot followed by a lob - exhibition stuff from the italian . he follows that up with another fine backhand that flashed down the line and rafa did n't even move . however , the spaniard fights back and levels the game with a trademark forehand . it goes to deuce and nadal gets advantage with some just brilliant defence with the italian then hitting the net . nadal eventually claims the game , but he 's looked far from impressive .
djokovic appears to have regained his composure pretty quickly as he races to a 40-0 lead to give himself three chances to go a break up again . a long forehand wastes the first before a superb forehand from simon saves the second , but the top seed restores his advantage with a delicate volley at the net .
tsonga shows his power on serve yet again to guarantee he gets at least a tiebreak out of this opening set . neither player have faced a break point yet , so you would n't bet against a breaker at the moment .
a powerful serve from djokovic moves the serbian 15-0 ahead in the fifth game of the first set , before the first ace of the match increases the score to 30-0. a stunning forehand then moves djokovic 40-0 ahead and the world number two holds once more with a powerful forehand past federer .
good response from federer who makes short work of his next service game . we 're neck-and-neck heading into the latter stages of this set . will tsonga 's serve give ?
djokovic is really struggling to read the newly-aggressive nieminen at the moment , as some potent serving from the world number 87 leaves djokovic unable to get his returns in . at 40-15 down , the top seed tries to catch nieminen out with a low forehand , but it fails to clear the net . the finn is in complete control of this second set , but it can all change very quickly .
nieminen finding all the corners now as it really starts to come together , but haas responds with some big serves to finally get himself on the board for the set .
djokovic quickly recovers from a sloppy forehand , forcing a couple of wayward returns from his finnish opponent . nieminen fires his backhand long to give the top seed a 40-15 lead , but djokovic tries a little too hard to wrap the game up quickly , allowing nieminen back into the game at deuce . the world number 87 ca n't bring up a break point though , as he twice hits the ball long to allow djokovic to hold . it 's not a perfect first service game from the world number one , but he gets the job done .
from 15-30 down tomic shows strong character , rattling off three successive points to earn a hard-fought hold . berdych has just been unable to force through those half-chances so far , keeping the second set firmly on serve .
djokovic tries to attack a second serve , but it was more powerful than he was expecting and he nets for a game to love for lacko .
an aggressive move to the net from berdych just catches his opponent off guard at the baseline , allowing but the same move from the czech then results in a sloppy forehand sent well wide . the world number seed goes back to basics under pressure , firing a strong first serve up the middle to complete a worthy hold .
after reaching 15-15 , wawrinka chases down a drop shot but he sends his reply just long of the baseline . djokovic brings up two game points with an ace and although the swiss saves the first , he ca n't return a serve on the second .
as it stands , you really ca n't see how matosevic is going to break federer . the 33-year-old holds to love for the second game in succession to quickly level things up .
janowicz seals a hold to 30 with a second smash after murray prodded back the first . the pole swats it away angrily and it bounces so high that it almost joins the famous faces in the royal box .
and there 's not much in terms of resistance coming the other way . djokovic wins to love and the set is continuing to go with serve .
sharp movement at the net from kubot moves him 30-0 up on serve , but a fierce forehand return from janowicz in the next point just lands inside the baseline to reduce the deficit . the 31-year-old remains unfazed and keeps wide on serve to get a hold that saw him concede just a single point .
malisse is refusing to give this one up . he holds for a fourth time . looking like this is heading for at least four sets .
break back ! murray strikes a sweet backhand crosscourt but djokovic is equal to it and murray ca n't then get his next groundstroke over . parity restored .
federer takes the serve-and-volley approach to quickly establish a 40-0 lead , but a backhand just misses the line . the swiss remains untroubled , though , and a smash is out of the reach of tsonga .
isner holds firm with a big serve out-wide that malisse ca n't get back . we 're level in the breaker as the players change ends for a second time .
there 's an ease in which murray is playing his tennis now . why could n't this have come sooner ? he takes advantage of the ball being left in the middle of the court to put away two winners on the way to a 4-0 advantage .
things are n't quite working out at the moment for cilic , who chucks another return into the midway point . however , the current champion comes back strong to swipe across the court and draw level . parity does not last long , though , as novak throws a killer serve down the middle to force a winner , before backing it up with a deep serve to move to game point . it 's over pretty quickly as cilic cuts a poor return wide of the mark .
it 's all too easy now for nieminen . he 's racing away with this set and haas must up his game very soon or it 's going to get away from him .
it 's another hold for lopez as murray hits wide . this one is very much in the balance .
break & set ! uh oh . are cracks appearing in gasquet 's serve ? stan levels up the match at one set apiece , but it 's sloppy by gasquet , who concedes two double faults in the 10th game of the second set - and that 's how stan won his last two points . really poor .
nadal survives a hawk-eye challenge from rosol to move 15-0 ahead before he starts to turn on the style again . he is in full flow on both his forehand and backhand sides and rosol has no reply as the world number one holds to love .
nadal breaks : harrison spurns two more game points and rafa punishes him by breaking again courtesy of a stunning backhand pass .
dolgopolov serves well , but a couple of poor forehands from the ukrainian gift ferrer a set point . he saves it with some good play at the net before taking advantage with a brave second serve , before jumping high at the net to smash the ball past ferrer . the fourth seed will now serve for the opening set .
just no way to put pressure on the berdych serve for tomic , with the world number six earning a welcome hold to love . tomic must now serve to stay in the match as the light just starts to fade a touch on court one .
djokovic races to a 40-0 lead before putting the ball in the net . however , a big serve sees harrison over-hit the return to give djokovic the game .
djokovic moves 15-0 ahead as federer hits a forehand just wide , before following suit in the next point for 30-0. federer hits another one long for 40-0 and djokovic secures the hold with a powerful serve .
blimey , dimitrov gets a game and needs treatment as a result . you would still expect djokovic to take this set .
lopez looks to have the momentum with him for the time being as a sweeping forehand gives him the hold . the crowd are certainly behind him .
you ca n't ask for any more than a comfortable hold to love . it puts the pressure right back on chardy , especially with the luck he got clipping the top of the net with a volley to win the game .
once again it 's a rapid-fire hold early in the fourth set , with simon taking his turn to look strong on serve .
chardy saves another but a terrible double fault - the second after throwing the ball up well behind him and going long - gifts murray the second set .
djokovic starts brilliantly with a one-two off his serve , but a second double fault gives nadal an opening . a net-cord hinders the serbian on the next point to see nadal move two points away from the set , and a wayward forehand gets nadal to 15-40. djokovic looks rattled , and despite some superb defence , nadal strikes to level the match !
at 30-0 down , murray looks down and out in this game , but he shows great fight to force deuce , thanks partly to a mistake from djokovic when he was serving for the game . the backhand volley down the line was on , but he went the other way and an alert murray pounced . up comes set point , but the scot disappointingly can only find the net . it 's then djokovic 's turn to serve for the game again , but murray wins through with a superb backhand from the baseline . two great rallies follow , both of which are won by djokovic to hold . what a game of tennis from both players .
murray creates an opening on the first point but misses with a forehand , although he 's given the point back when federer sprays a forehand wide of the line . a backhand is sent to the same place by the swiss , but he responds with some of the best net-play you are ever likely to see , finally putting away a backhand volley low down at the net . it 's 30-30 , but federer misses a return on a second serve . the game is sealed with an ace out wide .
nadal fails to convert his first break point as he hits an unforced backhand error . however , dimitrov then follows suit , meaning that , for the first time in the match , the world number one is ahead .
bautista agut is really trying hard , but he puts too much on a forehand down the sideline , and it creeps a fraction wide . ferrer misses the baseline when his opponent gets another lucky bounce of the net , before smashing the ball well wide to bring up deuce , but two errors from the world number 60 give ferrer the game .
berdych is wrong-footed by djokovic as the serb pushes to finish the match in this game , but the czech is too strong and forces djokovic to try to serve out the match .
he 's incredibly frustrated with himself now , fognini , who reaches a nadal drop shot but can not put it back over the net . at 30-30 he fires another unforced error long and nadal wraps up the game with a big ace . it 's almost done now - fognini serving to stay in the french open .
it 's very comfortable for murray now . he claims the double break after some poor hitting from sousa .
it 's imperative that gasquet begins this set with a hold of serve and he sets up an easy smash to reach 30-15. however , djokovic fires straight back with a forehand winner , before gasquet makes a mistake off the same wing . it 's break point to djokovic , and although gasquet saves the first , he is helpless to save a second as djokovic connects with a forehand passing shot to capture the break .
a forehand winner gets djokovic off to the perfect start but the score moves to 15-15 after the serbian goes marginally long with a backhand . murray ups the tempo to force another mistake out of djokovic for 30-15 before the world number hooks another backhand wide of the line . it 's two set points to murray , but the first goes begging after he sends the ball into the net with a forehand . huge point coming up . murray takes it ! djokovic goes long and we are heading into a fifth !
already some big baseline hitting from these boys . raonic hits long and blake has the hold .
from 40-0 down stepanek pulls it back to 40-30 but a fantastic one-two from the serb gives him the game . djokovic is not striking the ball nearly as hard as we 're used to so far , it 's a little strange .
well tsonga will have to serve it out . he did n't really challenge in that game , perhaps waiting for his chance with ball in hand . is he about to make it to the last eight in melbourne yet again ?
now would be the time to break if stan is to do it . from this point on djokovic will be serving to stay in the match - unless he breaks at 5-5 , of course .
verdasco holds serve to start the set . murray sent up a tough high ball at 40-30 but verdasco dealt well with it by putting away the drive-volley .
exactly the same pattern as the game before . the receiver wins the first point but ca n't win another .
perfect start to the set for djokovic , who holds to love .
ferrer makes another double fault , but challenges the line call , and hawkeye reveals that the ball was actually in . however , dolgopolov wins the point anyway , blasting a forehand past his opponent . two long returns from the 26th seed secure a hold for ferrer .
federer is now completely dictating the pace of this match , drilling the ball from side to side and making his opponent chase down lost causes at the baseline . a second successive hold to love for the swiss star restores his narrow advantage as we get to the business end of this opening set .
back to dominance for djokovic , who holds easily . business end of the set now , does stepanek have it in him to force a fourth ?
djokovic moves 15-0 ahead when federer plants a volley just wide , before the serbian hits a stunning forehand pass to move 30-0 ahead . djokovic then hits another pass - his 11th of the match - but then hits a volley just long for 40-15. djokovic manages to hold , however , when federer drops a forehand just long .
federer opens up the fourth set with a smash winner to take the lead in game one . more standout work on the forehand sees a 30-0 lead when novak is unable to return down the line , but he does soon counter with a great forehand winner . federer goes further ahead with an ace and kills off the game when djokovic spoons out .
del potro with a rare winner to seal the game and what a shot too . he goes for broke with a run-around forehand down the line and it just catches the back edge of the baseline . great shot .
so youzhny held his serve first up and now it 's deuce on ebden 's . he 'll have to fight for this .
kyrgios seems to be growing in confidence as he tries some ambitious returns in a bid to create a break point opportunity at 30-30 , but his forehand goes just long , before nadal seals the game with an ace .
murray has a glimmer of an opening at 15-30 but kyrgios is finding a way of continuing to fight in this contest , despite being restricted by his wrist problem . in fact , it may be improving and he shows his mettle with three successive points to hold to 30 .
bautista agut fights back from 40-0 down to get himself back into the game with some strong shots from the back of the court . he looks for a forehand winner down the sideline , but the ball fails to clear the net .
murray does n't receive any treatment and we continue . he starts his service game on the front foot , making up plenty of ground to put away a forehand at the net for 30-0 before djokovic nets to give him three game points . the top seed saves the first but murray gets to 3-3 after his opponent blasts a return long .
murray really is rattling through his service games now as he fires a 131mph ace past his opponent on his way to a hold to love . goffin has certainly been better in this second set , but has n't really been able to test the murray serve at all today .
`` game murray , '' as the scot puts away the easiest of volleys at the net . he 's still yet to present verdasco with a break-point opportunity in his three service games .
no he ca n't . tsonga misses his first serve , but federer 's back hand is fractionally to low , and gets caught on the net . tsonga follows with his 20th ace of the match , followed by another big serve to take an epic game . federer will now serve for the match .
fantastic from ferrer as he first serves wide to open the court for a pass before using every inch of his side to whip one round the corner and it 's a comfortable hold .
ferrer makes a good start before making his fifth double fault of the match . however , the spaniard is able to hold , as a serve out wide causes dolgopolov to slice the ball into the net .
federer eases to a 40-0 advantage , and murray is beginning to look weary . the scot gets back to 40-30 , but federer retains his composure to put away a challenging smash .
what a start from almagro . he 's smashing at the net like an angry child but it 's working for hims as he finds the break .
goffin saves the first , but he has no answer to a sweeping backhand from the world number one , who breaks at the perfect time and will now serve for the match .
suddenly some fight from the frenchman . he served and rallied well in that game to take only his second - and by far most comfortable - of the match so far . however djokovic to serve for the set .
break back ! typical fognini . at one point he 's waving at himself on the big screen inside the stadium before being broken to love .
frustration for nadal , who wastes his previous good work with a hat-trick of errors to allow djokovic to hold to 30 .
a run of unforced errors from almagro brings up a set point for nadal , but he ca n't make the most of it as almagro gets the better of him in a baseline rally , sending a looping forehand cross court . a lacklustre slice from almagro gives the defending champion another chance though , but once again he saves it , before giving himself a chance to close the game out with a big serve , but his backhand was long on the next point . eventually , almagro brings up another advantage , and this time he wraps it up with a spectacular backhand from the baseline , landing it just inside the opposite corner . that was an important game for almagro to win , keeping the opening set close , but nadal will be serving for it next .
murray is on the attack early , keen to avoid another tiebreak against the second seed . a long forehand from federer brings up three break points for the brit , who has been moving around the court superbly during the last couple of games . a sliced forehand from federer goes wide , and murray will serve for the match .
darcis saves the first break point with an ace awarded by hawkeye , but nadal quickly takes his next chance to earn a break back , forcing this first set to a tie break .
haase holds for the first time thanks to a couple of first serves from deuce . can he now break murray again to get back on level terms in the opener ?
the players share the opening points , before wawrinka registers the first ace of the match . murray nets on the next , and the swiss seals the game after ghosting into the net to convert a volley .
if janowicz continues to serve like this throughout the tournament then there 's not many that will be able to stop him . perhaps murray and djokovic , who are arguably the two best returners in the game .
again federer takes the first point on the robredo serve as the spaniard nets for 0-15 , but a brilliant forehand from robredo then levels the score at 15-15. federer fires the next point long for 30-15 , before following suit in the next for 40-15. a stunning backhand from federer makes it 30-40 , before deuce arrives after another sweeping federer forehand . robredo then misses a straight-forward smash to hand federer advantage , but recovers after coming to the net . federer misses a lob for deuce three and eventually robredo holds when the swiss fires long .
goffin starts the game well , taking the first point with a brilliant forehand return , but three straight powerful serves from tsonga give him control of the game . a double fault by the frenchman gives goffin some hope , and he takes the game to deuce with a superb forehand to the sideline . tsonga forces advantage with some solid play at the net , before taking the game with another big serve . it looks like goffin will be able to test tsonga during in service games .
djokovic fires long in the opening point to hand federer a 15-0 lead , before hitting another powerful serve for 30-0. a brilliant forehand extends the score to 40-0 and roger holds when novak fires long once more .
much more comfortable from nishikori . he wins the game with a good combination of powerful backhand and net play .
there 's a bit of respite for djokovic after he moves into a 30-0 advantage before an ace from the serb earns him three game points . murray remains in the game with a backhand return , but djokovic holds to 15 .
wow ... cilic comes up with the goods to curl an unbelievable shot down the line past tsonga . the croatian tries an improbable lob and comes unstuck despite having a 30-15 advantage on tsonga 's serve . the frenchman draws level as cilic fails on the forehand and then pushes one deep that leaves cilic stretching to punch into the net . tsonga holds out with a huge forehand swipe . another superb hold , but it might not be enough . cilic is now serving for the game !
tsonga holds , but gasquet has began to settle now .
murray saves one break point with djokovic hitting long and the second with some good hitting from the baseline . then a long rally ends with the serb taking the initiative and getting another break point with a huge backhand . murray serves big to save again , despite djokovic somehow getting it back over the net . he saves yet another with yet another brutal rally , this time djokovic netting . two booming murray serves win him the game and it 's a vital , morale-boosting hold . fantastic game of tennis .
federer hits four aces in a row to hold . not much more to say about that !
federer 's serve is no match for murray 's ability to return , and the swiss player faces a break in the first game of the match . while trying to change direction behind the baseline , murray loses hit footing . it does n't look like he 's hurt , but he has a good curse at his footwear anyway . the missed break allows federer to dig deep and serve out the game .
kyrgios opens with a wonderful ace to give himself more confidence . murray cuts into the net with another silly error as the score moves to 30-0. , but he 's back into the game with a strong forehand that wrong-foots the youngster , who soon smashes into the net too leaving things level . another error sets up the break point , but deuce is called after a wonderful serve from kyrgios . murray returns cleverly to force another error and bring another break chance , which he grabs by forcing kyrgios into an error with some soft-ball tactics .
federer crunches a backhand down the line for 15-0 , but proceeds to net to give murray a sniff at 15-15. the scot misses with a cross-court backhand , but he succeeds on the next for 30-30. this is better ! but that 's even better from federer , who plays the most immaculate of drop shots that has murray scampering towards the net . a forehand deep into the court then has murray on the defensive , and the former world number one is closing in on this first set .
it 's a pretty straight-forward start to the match for murray . the brit races to a 40-0 lead as goffin fires a couple of shots long . the belgian makes a solid return to keep himself in the game before murray tries an ambitious sliced backhand which drifts wide , before wrapping the game up with an ace .
murray crushes three returns back at djokovic but he is only successful with one and the serb leads 30-15. a wide forehand then flies over the baseline from murray , and his level has started to drop considerably now . djokovic holds to 15 .
it 's a cracking start from murray , who drills down two serves that ca n't be returned by his opponent , before he sneaks into the net to put away a backhand volley . it 's three set points for the scot , but he only needs one as he converts another ace .
the two players share the opening four points , before kohlschreiber strikes with an ace . he then plays a lovely combination to force djokovic out wide , before sealing the game with a forehand winner to force last year 's runner-up to try to serve for the match for the second time .
all of a sudden , this has turned into a big game for murray . he 's only won two points in the last three games . he takes the first two points of the 12th game with some pin-point serving but he lets his opponent back in with a double fault . two more mistakes gift ferrer a break point but he nails his biggest serve of the match to get to deuce . murray reaches game point but more mistakes allow ferrer a second chance , only for the spaniard to fire a backhand long of the baseline . there 's a `` brick-wall '' look to ferrer right now but murray batters it down with a lengthy baseline exchange to reach the tie-break .
federer has to dig deep to hold his serve , as tsonga takes him to 30-30. federer 's backhand rescues him , and he 's guaranteed at least a tiebreak for the set .
the spaniard looked to be losing his cool again there as petzschner holds . pretty sure he barked at the umpire over one call that did n't go his way .
more stellar play from gasquet to move 3-2 up . it 's far easier for him to win his service game than it is for wawrinka to win his . the frenchman is , in theory , halfway toward a massive scalp . i fancy him to take it , too . we 're heading into a huge last few games in this decider .
ferrer seems to lose all the accuracy on his serve , allowing bautista agut to attack on the return , forcing three unforced errors from the fourth seed . with two break points , the 25-year-old makes a brilliant return to the back of the court , and ferrer blasts the ball into the net .
federer has a spring in his step now . he shows no hesitation in converting a smash for a 30-0 lead and that quickly becomes game when wawrinka dumps two returns into the net .
another love service game for federer .
an ace out-wide from the third seed and that must be a killer blow for stakhovsky .
however , there 's no need as it turns out . murray blows a 30-0 lead and haase gets a break back .
what a disappointing way to be broken as klizan double faults at 15-40 behind on serve . berdych is clearly fired up with that breakthrough and will now serve for the first set after 25 minutes of play .
and so he does . tsonga moves into court to put away a sampras-esque smash for 15-15 , but federer but two accurate first serves help the swiss to 40-15. the former world number one then moves in to smash a volley into the corner , and it 's 5-5. federer has lost just three points on serve during this set ...
simon produces a wonderful shot to chip federer , who is not even interested in attempting to return , but the 33-year-old cannons one over the net to draw back at 15-15. federer 's serve does for the frenchman when he produces an ace , which is followed up with another point when simon scoops wide on the front foot towards the net . the seven-time champion takes it when simon fails again on his forehand return .
no problems whatsoever in the first game of the third set for almagro as he takes it to love . this is a big test of his character here .
the murray of the first set is on show now and that only spells bad news for sousa . he holds to 15 with minimal fuss and he looks well on course for victory now .
federer holds serve without letting his opponent take a single point . lacko is n't moving around the court too well at the moment , he does n't look injured , he 's just not coping with his opponent 's game .
all of a sudden , the pressure is on wawrinka . a double fault from the swiss gives falla a bit of an opening at 15-15 , but a forehand winner from the eighth seed catches the line . however , falla gets a bit of luck from a net cord , and that 's followed up by a wayward shot from wawrinka to hand falla break point , but wawrinka remains composed to unleash a huge forehand from the baseline , and he holds when falla fails to catch the inner tramline .
hewitt breaks again ! the australian is using all his tricks now , taking the pace off the ball and making tipsarevic hit it long . the serbian misses then with a routine volley to give the game away .
devvarman gets his first game on the board since the third set . and the second set before that . can he pull through for a shock victory ?
more mistakes from ferrer make it an easy start to the third set for nadal , who seals the game with an ace . the rain is starting to fall again at roland garros , but once again it 's fairly light .
ferrer looks comfortable at the start of the game , but a couple of errors with his serve allows robredo to find his way back into the game . ferrer regains the lead with a brilliant shot down the sideline , but another missed first serve allows robredo to take the game to deuce . the fourth seed plays it safe with his next two serves , and is able to hold to keep himself in a comfortable position in the second set .
blimey , when anderson 's serve is hot it 's pretty much unreturnable . the south african is 6 ' 8 '' and he uses all of his height to slap down the ball .
petzschner has his eyes on taking this second set now as an ace gives him the hold . almagro serving to stay in the set .
it 's more of the same from wawrinka , who comfortably takes the first two points , but federer misses out on the next when given a chance to put away a forehand . the swiss number two eventually hold to 15 when bludgeoning another forehand to the other end of the court that leaves federer with no answer .
after conceding the first point , dimitrov hits a lovely backhand up the line to level things up . the bulgarian seems to be trying a lot harder now and is playing some neat stuff . he meets a shot at the net with a terrific volley to earn a break point . the two contest a competitive deciding deuce , but djokovic is once again too strong .
strong service from djokovic , who forces his opponent into errors before taking a 40-0 lead . the serb takes the game as lopez hits a forehand shot out wide .
four from four in breaks becomes five from five . incredible conversion rate from almagro and he earned that one with a couple of huge backhands . pressure right back on ferrer .
physically , murray looks to be struggling as he finds the net twice in quick succession to hand djokovic a 15-30 lead . however , he is then let back in by the serb , who commits an unforced error . in the next point , though , djokovic reads the second serve and gives himself a break opportunity . not for the first time , murray then sends his forehand stroke into the net and is broken . it looks a long way back for murray now - he 's got to dig deep .
strong hold from ferrer , to follow suit . if nothing gives here we 're going to a tie-break , and that looks quite likely at the moment .
djokovic moves 15-0 ahead when federer fires a forehand just wide , before another ace moves djokovic onto 30-0. quickly 40-0 arrives when federer fails to return a powerful forehand , but federer is on the board with a brilliant backhand . djokovic manages to hold , however , with a fine passing backhand .
ferrer is clearly livid at having lost his early break , and is immediately on the attack , making some superb returns to force a 40-15 lead . he tries too hard with an attempted forehand , blasting the ball long , before bautista agut makes a brilliant drop shot to take the game to deuce . the 25-year-old digs deep to force advantage , and seals the game with a well-executed volley . he 's recovered well from a shaky start to this match .
the scot has the chance to level things at 15-15 , but he rushes the net and smashes beyond the baseline ... poor tennis . murray is then wrong-footed following a long rally , which allows kyrgios to lead 40-0. murray grabs one back , though , as more rallying sees andy pull the cutter and the australian throws a return into the net . more clever work from the scot stops kyrgios returning from deep . an audacious cut of his own , this time at real pace , gives the youngster the game . what a shot !
nadal starts the second set with a solid hold of serve , opening the set with an ace before a couple of long returns from kyrgios hand him the game .
two lengthy rallies are shared , before kohlschreiber commits an unforced error . djokovic hits the ball into the net twice in succession to hand his opponent game point , and the serb repeats the act to hand kohlschreiber the game , which draws a frustrated response from the world number one .
the spaniard shows some quality as he produces an excellent serve , which ca n't be returned by berdych . nadal gets moving in the game due to an unforced error from berdych , but the czech comes back into the game with his power play on his forehand . however , this time the number three seed is able to resist and forces another mistake out of the czech before taking the game with an ace .
it 's back on serve on hisense as verdasco breaks right back !
murray reaches 0-15 when pospisil nets a volley off a return , and that soon becomes 0-30 when the canadian sends a forehand wide . two huge serves from pospisil get him back to 30-30 , before some sharp work at the net helps him earn a game point . a super one-two off serve sees him regain the lead , and although murray missed out from 0-30 , pospisil won that game rather than murray losing it .
however , he 's powerless to resist once more , despite djokovic serving the first double fault of the match . now murray must hold to go to a breaker , or he 's lost the opening set .
a fine response from simon to hold and go within two games of clinching a place in the fourth round .
kyrgios hits three more aces past the second seed to wrap up another game , and guarantee at least a tiebreak from the first set .
lopez does n't mess around there as he holds comfortably . murray 's only point came from a clean forehand winner down the line but he was done there .
much better from the kazakh as he holds to 15 to move within a game of the first set .
malisse has a glimpse of a break at 30-30 but it 's extinguished by isner 's massive service .
well , almagro will at least avoid the dreaded bagel in the third set as he puts in a solid serve game , sealing it with a powerful forehand . it leaves nadal serving for the match next .
djokovic is still looking for the break , taking a 30-0 lead again , but once again muller gets back on level terms with some superb serving , including a bold second serve to the top seed 's body . he mis-cues a volley though to give djokovic a break point , although the world number one fails to convert with an overhit backhand . he saves another break point with an ace down the middle of the court . the errors return for muller though as he misses two backhands in a row to hand djokovic the break , and leave the four-time champions serving for a two-set lead next .
psychologically , that was a hammer blow to nadal , and he looks a little deflated as djokovic moves into a 30-0 lead . however , he is soon encouraged when his opponent plays two wild shots to get the game back to 30-30. all of a sudden , there is a lull in djokovic 's play and another wayward backhand gives nadal a break point . the left-hander ca n't take advantage though , and two errors and a djokovic winner sees us reach 4-4 .
break back ! murray saves the first with a forehand winner but dumps a backhand into the net on the second and we 're back level in the set .
roger gets into a spot of bother with some average return work that flies wide , but replies on the rush to fire deep into the corner on a serve and volley . the world number two goes again , this time to send a poor attempted winner beyond the baseline . it goes all wrong for roger when he spoons a laughable effort into the crowd , although wawrinka can not take the break point . federer serves up a memorable ace before eventually taking the hold .
nadal gets a chance to give himself two break points , with ferrer coming into the net to volley . nadal goes for a deep backhand , but it lands just long of the baseline . another backhand effort from the defending champion finds the net , giving ferrer the game .
nadal gets the second set off the a flyer by holding to love . that game means that both players have now won 26 points so far today . dimitrov has won the more important ones though !
make that ten successive points on serve for kubot as he wraps up a comfortable hold under little pressure . the 31-year-old is now back ahead in the third set , still fighting hard for every point which must be considered a positive sign .
very good tennis from both men here . youzhny smashes one down the line so ebden , not to be outdone , follows suit before almost clipping an absolute beauty round the corner but it was inches long . a long return gives youzhny the game .
djokovic 's deep forehand forces dimitrov to hook his reply beyond the baseline for the opener . the bulgarian sends another response crashing out of bounds . dimitrov forced the serb to slide about on the way to earning his first point of the match . however , dimitrov overcooks another hit as djokovic takes the opening game .
murray starts well with a swinging serve out wide , but he misses an opportunity for 30-0 when hitting a forehand wide . turning point ? not so far . the next point is an ace - his eighth of the match - before berdych sends the next return long . it 's two set points for murray , but berdych survives the first with a well-constructed point . he ca n't save the second though - a huge ace out wide earns him a 2-1 advantage .
there is fight in hewitt yet ! tipsarevic 's winners have deserted him , as has his luck . a net chord brings him in and hewitt duly produces a backhand lob to set up a winner .
just as he did earlier in the set , kokkinakis reacts well to missing break point by holding serve comfortably - this time to 15 .
what a start to the tie-break . robredo earns the mini-break with a forehand winner , but gasquet replies in kind with a ridiculous backhand from behind the baseline . it 's gasquet who has the mini-break after a net cord sends a robredo shot wide , and the spaniard 's frustration grows when a return misses its target . a smash from gasquet takes the score to 4-1 , but robredo stops the rot when his opponent goes long .
back on his favoured own serve , tsonga pushes forward into a 40-30 lead despite the fillip of a cilic challenge . the big frenchman takes the set with an ace ! could this actually happen ? like , actually ?
wawrinka possesses remarkable strength in his backhand and he uses it all to power a backhand down the line . that paves the way for a love hold , and we are heading into a tie-break .
dimitrov takes the first point with a big return of serve , and he replicates the trick after a weak second serve . it 's 0-30 , and murray is under pressure . the brit takes the next point , but a forehand into the net gives dimitrov two break points . murray saves the first with a smash before dimitrov nets on the second . it 's deuce , but that soon becomes game point to murray with a 130mph ace down the middle . dimitrov does superbly to slide around the court to retrieve the ball but he ca n't stop murray from converting a volley . massive hold . now , can he strike on the bulgarian 's serve ...
a double fault and a wayward backhand from gasquet gift robredo 15-30 , but an excellent first serve levels the game . the pair exchange points to reach a second deuce , but a robredo error and a gasquet smash see the frenchman move into a 3-0 advantage .
nadal does indeed claim the opening set 6-2 following a stunning showing from the spaniard . djokovic claims the opening point with a forehand to move 0-15 ahead , but the serbian then fires long to leave the game tied at 15-15. a stunning forehand from the world number one moves him ahead once more , but he then misses a passing forehand . nadal moves 40-30 ahead with a composed forehand , before djokovic fires long to hand the spaniard the opening set .
federer manages just one return against the tsonga serve in the game , which takes less than a minute . the world number eight has been deadly on serve in this second set .
this is simply sublime from wawrinka . he crushes two absolutely marvellous winners past a floundering federer to earn a set point and it 's taken when federer frames a backhand . the world number two looks despondent and i do n't blame him . this is brilliant from his swiss rival .
murray seems to have found another level in the last few moments as he quickly moves 0-30 ahead following two net shots from golubev in quick succession . golubev does move onto the board after demonstrating delicate hands at the net , but murray sets up two break points when his opponent fires wide . golubev refuses to be beaten , however , and levels it at deuce . eventually murray secures the break when golubev nets from close range .
there 's a little bit of carelessness from murray as he sends a forehand stroke wide to allow djokovic to close the gap to 30-15. however , djokovic then returns the favour by sending a forehand of his own into the tramline . the next point goes the way of djokovic , but a smart backhand down the line sees murray claim a much needed hold .
as my colleague liam pointed out to me , lopez has lost it mentally . he double faults to hand murray the break . this looks like it 's going only one way now .
murray could do with a comfortable service-hold , and he looks on course with a 30-0 lead . however , a sloppy backhand volley into the net lets wawrinka back into the game , but he replies with an ace down the middle . wawrinka hits back for deuce , partly thanks to another baseline winner , but murray digs in to hold for a third time .
groans from the crowd on ashe as roddick slams a forehand into the net . fognini has the break .
the 31-year-old holds serve with another magnificent shot . this time it 's a backhand volley on the run that lands right in the corner . stakhovsky thinks about challenging but he knows it 's in and is just amazed .
it 's an equally strong hold from djokovic , who establishes a 40-0 lead in next to no time . a love service hold is completed with a one-two off his serve .
but tsonga holds , and he 's now just one game from taking a one-set lead .
ferrer looks empty and djokovic capitalises on this by sending his opponent all around the court , eventually earning him three break points , which takes the top seed to an easy 3-0 lead in the third set .
ferrer really goes for it , coming well inside the baseline to take the returns , forcing dolgopolov to stay at the back of the court . the ukrainian hands the fourth seed the game when he smashes his forehand well long .
murray smashes a routine smash into the net on the first point - a shocking mistake - but he replies with a backhand winner down the line . something just is n't right with murray , who records his 18th unforced error in sending a forehand into the net . he comes perilously close to double-faulting but takes the point when dimitrov nets to get back to 30-30 , but dimitrov earns break point after some blistering shots from the baseline . this is a must-win point for murray , and he takes it with a cute volley at the net . it 's another break point to dimitrov , though , and it 's taken when murray slices long . the defending champion is in big , big danger of going two sets behind .
stepanek comes in from the baseline to take his returns early and put his opponent under pressure , earning himself two break point . djokovic hits a fast serve to save the first before forcing deuce after a string of well-timed groundstrokes . he misses his first chance to win the game when he fires a backhand wide , but he creates another chance and manages to escape with his serve intact as stepanek hits the net with his forehand . that will be a bitter disappointment for the world number 38 who surely must have thought he had the game in the bag at 40-15 .
the top seed is forced to work hard but still earns a hold that edges him back ahead . reynolds continues to chase down every single point and that has to admired , but i do expect him to tire if he continues to set that pace .
djokovic has called for the trainer and will be seen in the next couple of minutes . meanwhile , federer moves 15-0 ahead when djokovic hits a forehand wide . federer then follows suit in the next point for 15-15 , before the swiss moves onto 30-15 with another ace . eventually djokovic sets up advantage when federer double-faults and the serbian takes it with a brilliant passing forehand for the first break of the match .
a comfortable hold for wawrinka this time thanks to a masterclass in serving under extreme pressure . the names isner and mahut spring to mind right now !
oh dear . this gets worse for ferrer as djokovic gets the instant break .
the longer these rallies go on , the sooner murray will win . he took control of that point early on , working the angle before whipping away a cross-court forehand .
simple stuff from lopez to hold to love . he 's digging in now . surely this ca n't go to four sets ...
djokovic breezes into a 40-0 advantage after some fine serving and errors from murray and he holds to love after seemingly having the ball on a string as he draws murray to and from the net .
djokovic 's radar is just slightly off in the early stages of the game as he fires long to hand nadal a 15-0 lead , but that quickly becomes 15-15 as nadal nets from inside the court . the shot of the match follows as djokovic lobs nadal from behind the baseline , but he nets moments later to leave the game level at 30-30. a stunning move from the world number one hands him break point , which he takes following the longest rally of the match thus far .
it 's a much more comfortable service game from the sixth seed this time around as his first three serves are all returned to the net to give him a quick 40-0 lead , before a long backhand hands nadal an easy hold . that 's more the kind of game that had been expected from the defending champion last time .
it 's imperative that sousa avoids falling an early break of serve behind in this second set and when he drops to 0-30 , it looks as though that could be the case . however , out of nowhere , he records four points in a row , mainly down to murray mistakes , and he should feel a lot more comfortable after that .
almagro 's shots are all being played from a standing position . he 's not lively at all out there . ferrer holds and you sense one break would do it for him .
some trademark stuff there as federer holds to love , finishing the game off with a delicate drop shot .
in contrast , cilic is looking as alert as can be . he 's taking the fight to murray and the scot is yet to provide a riposte . cilic holds again .
perfect start for djokovic , who holds to love with minimum fuss .
blake whacks another horrible forehand long to give raonic the break . this set is all but over .
you would expect djokovic to have the better fitness of the two and be able to outlast del potro here . he 's now won eight out of eight points on serve in this set after another love-hold .
the spaniard was facing a break point but comes back to hold impressively .
robredo is n't playing bad at all , but wawrinka is well on top . ever since he made his breakthrough on the major scene last year , wawrinka has looked much more accomplished , and it 's showing here .
ludicrous return work from roger sees him assume dominance at 30-0 off his opponent 's serve . stan falls to his own poor timing , leaving federer to clinch a set-winning break with a return that sees wawrinka spoon a huge return into the stands . game over ? this has been reletenless execution work from federer . wawrinka has not had a look in thus far ...
at 30-0 , wawrinka throws in his second double fault of the match but he remains unnerved and holds easily enough to 15 .
the aussie continues to show why he 's loved so much as he takes murray to love thirty off the scot 's serve . murray senses the danger and works on a rushed chip from the net that kyrgios ca n't get to . it 's soon 30-30 after a forehand error from the 19-year-old . murray moves in front with a dash that wrong-foots kyrgios . another game for murray with a service that is returned into the foot of the net . kyrgios is looking perturbed .
good start of his own from djokovic , who moves 30-0 ahead after forcing a couple of errors . he holds and we remain level .
federer remains competitive in the game when nadal goes long for 30-15 , and although nadal achieves two game points , his opponent fires back with a huge forehand from the baseline . it 's 40-30 - what a sensational rally on the next point ! the duo go toe-to-toe with back-and-forth shots from the baseline , and it 's nadal who prevails when federer nets . best point of the match .
murray breaks to love at the start of the third with a backhand down the line and the fight looks to have gone from haase .
that might just be the quickest six points in history . falla holds to 30 in a blink of an eye , and he needed that after the end of that second set .
tsonga holds to 15 after federer loses his range off the ground . surely just a minor blip though .
he gets between the tramlines this time , but can not clear the net to give nadal three break points . nadal goes long , then into the net and finally long again as the italian recovers to save all three . nadal edges ahead again with the advantage , with fognini hitting long once more . double break for nadal , who now needs just two more games .
straightforward hold for murray after losing the first point and he 's well on top .
getting the break back has given baghdatis a confidence boost as he levels the set . if both players continue playing as they are at the minute , this could be a very close , long match .
too good from murray . a great inside-out forehand , a crisp volley and a powerful smash . 30-15 .
ferrer has the break following another close game . there 's little between these two at the moment . ferrer has the better range of movement , but baghdatis loves playing to the crowd , and has been pulling out some stunning winners early in this match . he 'll need more if he 's to stay in this first set though .
wawrinka gets on the board in the fourth with a much-needed hold to 15. djokovic should have pulled it back to 40-30 but he missed a sitter of a volley at the net . there 's been a definite drop in intensity in this set .
nishikori does n't look interested . ferrer is his usual dependable self , and consolidates the break with little fuss . the trainer is back on for the japanese .
youzhny just hangs on to his serve and it 'll be murray to serve to stay in the set again . he looks a little forlorn at his chair but i expect this to go to a tie-break .
robredo continues to struggle as federer 's first serve proves difficult to handle , before the spaniard fires long for 30-0. robredo then fails to return once more for 40-0 and the swiss holds with another ace .
serve has been the dominant feature in the past 10 minutes , and another love-service hold is brought up when djokovic makes two errors off his forehand . there is a strange atmosphere at the moment . the crowd seem to be already anticipating a win for djokovic , but as long as kohlschreiber remains a break of serve behind , he has a chance .
make that four set points saved by tomic as he somehow checks back to meet a slice return at the net . superb stuff from the young aussie just as he appears to be feeling the heat on serve , staying alive in the third set with a strong show of resistance .
sousa battles to get 15-30 ahead in the game , but then throws it away by going long with a forehand . he tries a drop shot , which is never a good idea against the rapid murray , but an even worse idea if it 's going to bounce shoulder height for an easy winner . murray wraps up a close game after deuce .
djokovic hits a fine volley to take the scores to 15-15 before holding his nerve in a long rally to move ahead . the serb forces an error from his opponent to move to a set point opportunity , and djokovic grabs it with a superb serve that forces lopez into hitting the return into the sky . it has taken just 25 minutes for the world number one to see out the first set . bed before 5am ? do n't put it past him .
raonic has a big serve , opening with a 238kph smash . breaks will be at a premium in this match , with both players being renowned for their serving , federer for his action and accuracy , and raonic for pace . it 's a good start by the canadian , holding despite a couple of errors , including a double fault .
dimitrov nearly makes the perfect response by taking the first game of the second set but let a lead drop to force deuce after slamming a simple effort into the net . he does it again shortly after to award djokovic the advantage . he recovers to take it to deuce once more but sliced into the net to hand his opponent back the initiative after a 27-shot rally . however , djokovic failed to put the final nail in the coffin in an enthralling deuce battle and missed two easy shots to gift dimitrov the opening game after letting slip three break points in a nine-minute game .
well , not that interesting . a miscued forehand and two unreturned first serves from rosol see nadal race to 40-0 before the left-hander fires down an ace for the set .
it 's an easy start to the third set for the frenchman . monfils races to a 40-0 lead before a couple of brilliant returns from dolgopolov gets him back in the game . monfils finished the game with a superb backhand , and is looking comfortable so far .
tsonga still does n't look entirely comfortable with his racquet , as he wildly mis-hits the ball into the crowd , following by a shot into the net , gifting goffin an easy hold .
mistakes on both sides push the scores to 30 each , where stan brings an end to a superb deep-court rally with a costly rush into the net to hand federer break point . the vital break is achieved when wawrinka sends his final response out of bounds . is that it ?
i 've lost track of the number of easy service games that federer has produced in this final . his ninth ace begins the game and his 10th ace concludes it .
djokovic responds with a comfortable hold of his own to edge ahead . both players are visibly tiring and we have reached a stage where one mistake could be curtains .
you can feel the tension in this game but it 's wawrinka who has the better of the opening three points in opening up a 30-15 lead . djokovic then nets to give the defender two set points , and the first is taken with an inside-out forehand winner into the corner . we are going to a fifth and final set , but we all knew that was going to happen , right ?
deary me . ferrer commits his ninth double fault before missing with an overhead smash . on the flip side , murray incredibly shouts out `` no '' to a ball that lands in and it 's enough for the umpire to hand the point to ferrer . correct decision . ferrer then executes a drop shot for 30-30 before putting away a simple one-two off a first serve . murray gets into the next rally but he sends a baseline shot long and ferrer holds .
another clinical display from murray on serve , he seems to have rediscovered his rhythm . federer makes some good returns , but struggles to get on the attack .
a smash from wawrinka sees him take the opening point but he gets too aggressive during the next rally and allows his opponent to level . it 's a momentarily lapse though as the swiss powers through the remainder of the game to regain the lead .
nadal coasts the first point of the game as he capitalises on an error from berdych , but the czezh responds with absolute power as he crashes two forehands past the spaniard . berdych does it again on nadal 's serve to earn two break points , before the spaniard shows great awareness of the to read berdych at the net and telegraph his backhand past him for a winner . however , he spoils his play with a loose backhand shot on the next point as he hands the game to the 29-year-old .
klizan gambles with a deep forehand return and that risk does not pay off , with the ball drifting long to gift berdych a second set he fully deserves . all too easy there on serve for seventh seed , who is playing just about the perfect first-round match this afternoon . klizan must move quickly or this match will be over in straight sets .
a few early unforced errors from nadal continue to be outweighed by his class under pressure , with a sublime backhand bouncing off the line to keep this tight first set on serve . darcis will serve next to stay in the set , but has has shown no signs of buckling so far with a mix of power and guile .
tsonga looks in control of the game at 30-15 , before federer caresses a cross-court forehand over the net . however , tsonga blasts down the first ace of the match to stop federer in his tracks , with another big first serve taking the game .
djokovic senses weakness in his opponent after he effectively gave his serve away in the last game , and he is soon 30-0 up . however , the german fights back to 30-30 when djokovic misses with an easy forehand . he then misses another , and out of nowhere , kohlschreiber has break point , but he nets from the baseline . he shows great character to force a third deuce with a couple of dominant points . the duo then share winners and we have a fourth deuce for the second game in a row . that 's sublime from kohlschreiber , who flights a drop shot from the back of the court just over the net , but he goes long on the next return . the net cords are favouring kohlschreiber at the moment , and he clips the net with a backhand down the line for a third break point , but again , djokovic stands firm . yet another break point for the german , but he can do nothing as djokovic powers a forehand cross-court . a marathon game finally comes to a conclusion when kohlschreiber nets twice in succession .
dimitrov takes the opening two points with ease , but a double fault and a sharp return see murray get back to 30-30. murray has an opening for a backhand winner , but he is marginally off with his range , and dimitrov takes the game with a smash .
break point for berdych ! 30-40
much better from stan , who cruises into a 40-15 lead , before ultimately serving out the game to level up at three apiece in the deciding set . are we going the distance ? we thought we were in the previous set , before gasquet pulled out a break in the 10th game to win 6-4. do n't be surprised if it 's similarly as tight here .
djokovic is showing no signs of fatigue from that five-set epic against kevin anderson , nor any of the cobwebs that blighted his first two sets in that match . he takes the first two points , which includes a failed challenge from cilic , but the croat does well to haul himself back to 30-30 with a delicate drop shot . he then has the world number one racing back and forth before finishing the point off with another drop shot , and djokovic sends the next one into the net as cilic holds .
istomin passes the first test : the hold . now comes the much , much tougher one of breaking the reigning champion .
del potro hits a mighty forehand winner to save the first game point but does n't win the second as another forehand is called out . he should have challenged though as hawk-eye shows that it did catch the baseline .
pospisil restarts the contest on the front foot but murray reaches 30-15 with a heavily-sliced backhand . pospisil earns two game points with a serve-and-smash but murray remains in the game by drilling a forehand straight back at his opponent . however , pospisil holds with a huge serve out wide .
an exuberant fist pump from djokovic as another lengthy rally ends with his maybe-mishit backhand dipping onto the line . haas challenges but it did hit the paint and we 're back on level terms in the second .
double break ! the end is near for kukushkin as nadal breaks to 30. the number two seed will now serve for the match on centre .
it 's a promising start to the second from tsonga , who again takes the game with a mishit federer forehand . that 's his 14th unforced error so far - not good enough , really .
stan the man gets off to an excellent start in the second set , rattling off four points in quick succession to move one game ahead . there 's a rather subdued atmosphere from the crowd . there 's a sense that they 're just waiting for this one to explode into life .
djokovic smashes the ball into the open court to take the early lead , and that is extended when murray shanks a second serve . he 's then forced onto the back foot before netting a backhand and murray is 3-0 and two mini-breaks down . murray attacks a second serve on the next point but he can only drill the return into the net and this set is quickly slipping away . murray secures one of the mini-breaks back after a long rally , but he wastes a glaring opportunity to make it 4-2 when he smashes a backhand wide .
there 's not a whole lot of effort from murray to try to prevent djokovic easing into a 3-2 advantage , but at 40-0 , the serb double faults . murray then steps into a second serve to thrash a backhand winner past his opponent before dominating the next exchange to get to deuce . remarkable stuff . however , djokovic responds with an ace out wide before murray just misses with a forehand return . murray has called for the trainer at the changeover .
lu struggles with his ball toss early in the game , causing him to miss a couple of first serves , before he fires a forehand into the net . the taiwan player does have an unusually high ball toss . a wide forehand gives murray two chances to take the break , but he needs just one , as lu finds the net again .
now then . rosol miscues a baseline shot for 0-15 before nadal overpowers his opponent in a lengthy exchange to move to 0-30. rosol is weakening here , and he sends a backhand into the net to give nadal three break points . the first is saved , but a sharp return forces rosol onto the back foot and nadal is on level terms .
he 's done it ! federer shows a lovely touch at the net to guide a volley just over , but tsonga reaches it and smashes the ball at the swiss for the point and the break !
raonic is really getting through his service games quickly now , as four more booming serves notch another game on the board . djokovic can only stand there , watch and admire . now , he serves for the set ...
janowicz holds , but he made hard work of it . all the errors are coming from his racquet , with 12 in this set alone . devvarman 's count is substantially lower , but that 's becuase he just is n't going for broke .
how is nadal doing this ? ! wawrinka appeared to be heading for a break when he opened up a 15-40 lead , but nadal battled back to win the next four points to take the game . he may not have served any quicker there , but it did seem that the spaniard was moving a little more freely . let 's hope so .
break back dolgopolov finds himself with the chance to break back and is gifted the game when monfils misses his first serve , before putting a forehand in the net .
petzschner still using his serve effectively and holds to go back in front .
for the first part of that set it was like wawrinka had nadal on a piece of string out there . to go 40-0 up , he toyed with the spaniard before powering a forehand down the line and beyond the reach of his flat-footed opponent . nadal responds to win the next two points , before wawrinka sees a ball long to maintain the break . nevertheless , it 's a reminder ( not that he needed it ) that nadal is not going to give this set away - wawrinka is going to have to win it .
that 's djokovic 's first hold to love and a good way to recover after losing his serve last time out . can murray now hold to prevent djokovic snatching the set ?
the level of tennis has dropped at the start of this third set , but federer still holds to 15. it 's a weird atmosphere on rod laver , the crowd are almost silent . i 'm sure that will change though .
ferrer simple can not respond if almagro 's serving is to stay hard and accurate . the 10th seed takes this one after a solid one-two with a forehand that ferrer can not get back over the net .
at 30-15 , tsonga looks in control of the game , but a solid return of serve from djokovic forces the mistake . the next point sees the two battle it out in the longest rally of the match , but tsonga nets to give the break point to his opponent , who takes full advantage when the frenchman goes long . that could be a crucial moment in the match .
murray makes good ground to flick a backhand past federer for 15-15 , but a stiff-looking return from the scot finds the net . a forehand winner and an ace earn the swiss the game .
a good hold from almagro from behind . it was vital that he regained his composure and he did with a few big serves that got him out of trouble .
there are danger signs for federer when wawrinka takes two points in a row to get back to 30-30 but fortunately for fans of the fed express , their man holds firm to get a much-needed game on the board . it 's the first one he has recorded in five attempts .
an ace opener comes from federer who then moves 30-0 ahead when novak comes up short with his backhand . federer advances unchallenged to 40-0 thanks to a forehand smash and then seals the game when djokovic bangs a heavy one beyond the court .
nadal twice gets fortunate as he levels the score at 30-30 after clipping the net on the latest point . wawrinka is growing frustrated and gifts nadal the game point by hitting his return well out , which he duly provides him with as he slices a drop shot into the net .
but of course there 's another twist in the tale ! it 's a brilliant fightback from wawrinka who quickly demolishes any ideas of this becoming routine for the second seed . we might yet have a long way to go in this .
murray steps into the chardy second serve and works the point so he can finish with a booming forehand and the frenchman nets for an immediate break for the brit .
a couple of mis-hits from tsonga held federer to a 30-0 lead , but the frenchman responds with an ace down the centre of the court . a double fault then gives federer two break points . he saves the first with a mighty serve , which the second seed can do nothing with , before gliding his backhand in to the net . that was probably tsonga 's worst service game since the opening game of the match .
this has been a spectacular performance from cilic and it 's getting better and better . he brings up two break points after some huge shots inside the baseline and he 's move a game away from a two-set lead when nishikori nets .
another double fault from the latvian and that 's the first set to tsonga in 34 minutes . there was evidence of gulbis 's talent in patches but he made eight unforced errors and only managed to get 41 % of his first serves in .
both players are looking to take points with their forehands at the moment , but a long effort from ferrer gives nadal a chance to break . however , he puts the miss behind him and goes for the same shot again , and this time he makes it to bring up deuce . the ball is long again on the next points to give nadal advantage , before ferrer serves a double fault , handing nadal the game . the reigning champion will now serve for the match and championship .
excellent from murray , who drives the ball down the line and beyond a helpless lopez . deuce .
kohlschreiber takes the opening point of the match when djokovic goes wide with a forehand down the line , but he soon asserts himself in the game with three straight points . the serb makes the same mistake a point later , but a strong first serve seals the first game of the match .
break back ! double fault ! ! djokovic delivers those so rarely but that 's already his third of the match .
the remarkable 100 % break point conversion continues ! almagro breaks again and he again serves for the match . three breaks running in this match and ferrer needs a fourth to save the match .
what a difference a couple of games make ! the momentum is all with murray as he serves out to love . the final point was a strange one as djokovic casually lofted a return of serve out . he does n't look overly happy and will now serve to stay in the set .
three straight points for the argentinian after that though and he 's on the board in the third .
it 's another stunning service game from djokovic . he 's sending his opponent all around the court to make returns . it certainly feels like we 're coming towards the end of this match .
like in the first set , kyrgios responds to falling a break behind by going on the offensive and his remarkable hitting gets him to 15-40. kyrgios should be back on level terms but he wastes an easy forehand to break back , and after murray saves two more break points , he comes through with the hold . how big could that be ?
the two 6 ' 3 '' guys start with baseline tennis , before haase moves to the net for a neat serve and volley . in no time at all haase takes the opener to love .
neither player looks like breaking serve at the moment . it 's good that the two men are so well matched , but it would be nice to see a bit more of a competition within the individual games .
it was n't pretty , but murray gets the hold . important for berdych that he now follows suit .
this has been seamless from federer ! the rolls royce of tennis is ticking over beautifully ... the veteran takes control of his service game to move virtually unchallenged into a 1-0 lead in the third . the highlights might just give you a peep at a wonderful spinning drop over the middle from stan , though .
three set points saved . we 're now into a tie-break .
nadal is cruising and closing in on the match . he smashes his way to the game without a wawrinka response .
nadal 's struggling to get his first serves in at the moment , but it does n't seem to be too much of a hinderence for the nine-time roland garros winner . almagro still struggles to return the second serve , while a potent forehand gives nadal a 40-0 lead . however , the sixth seed lets his opponent back into the game with a wide forehand followed by a rare double fault . he finds his serving form just in time though , whacking the ball deep to force a wide return from his compatriot to clinch the game .
djokovic nets and now andy murray will serve for the wimbledon title .
a second hold to 15 for muzza . it 's unlikely that janowicz will threaten much on his serve . the deciding factor is probably going to be whether murray can trouble the colossal janowicz service .
it 's an easy hold for cilic , who takes four straight points during an error-strewn game for nishikori .
it 's another hold to love for the swiss . he has now won the last 10 points behind his own delivery . a message is being sent to his opponent .
tipsarevic will now serve for the match . hewitt 's resistance looks to be broken as a tough volley drops long .
the italian races through his service game . two un-returnable serves and a powerful cross-court forehand help to draw seppi level in the second set .
right now , djokovic looks there for the taking . the limp is back as murray breaks early in the third set . there 's a couple of unforced errors from the serb , who loses his balance again as he fires into the net to hand murray the break . now is the time for murray to attack and press home his advantage .
kokkinakis holds to 40 and stays in touch with nadal in this opening set , which is 22 minutes old .
haas wo n't give up , not yet anyway . he holds serve to get on the board straight away in the third set .
the pair trade aces on the first two points before djokovic edges ahead with a serve out wide . tsonga replies with a second successive ace before benefiting from a net cord to deny djokovic the mini-break and the serbian grimaces , holding the shoulder that he hurt against gilles simon on friday . it does n't deny him levelling the tie-break at the change of ends .
the number eight seed caresses a forehand winner past robredo , but the spaniard responds in kind with a backhand of his own . robredo is trying to step things up a notch , but wawrinka is wise to it and fires a flat forehand into the corner . however , robredo is hanging on in there , and he survives a break point to hold serve .
wawrinka fires down aces number four and five for a 40-0 lead , before an easy volley at the net takes the game . routine stuff .
tomic comes up big at break point down , unleashing a forehand before matching it with a backhand winner to earn an important hold .
tipsarevic was 0-30 down there but he fought back to hold . this one is getting more tense by the minute .
istomin nets at 40-30 , which means deuce . his level is going up and down all over the place at the moment , as he then produces a fine serve that 's returned into the net for advantage . then there 's an unforced error from the serb to gift the game to istomin . he 's clinging on at the moment , the uzbek .
the crowd cheers as a sweet backhand winner from ferrer gives the spaniard his first hold of the set .
the swiss has the momentum , but he lets it slip with consecutive shots into the net . nadal takes the game with a thunderous forehand from the baseline to hold to love .
as federer allows himself to play some looser tennis he serves up his first double fault of the match . despite that , federer easily holds the game . these last two games have certainly been the most crowd pleasing .
benneteau showing some confident groundstrokes from the back of the court there but djokovic starts well to hold .
in the next rally haas goes on the offensive but his forehand approach is long and that 's his ninth unforced error of the match .
murray was working his backhand well there and had the chance for a break point , but cilic rallies to hold . the scot serving to stay in this second set now .
matosevic has resorted to attacking the net but he has limited success as federer picks him off with a forehand . the australian gets to 40-15 but a backhand winner and sharp return from federer get him back to deuce . important moments for the 29-year-old but he comes through strongly to edge ahead .
a rare unforced error at the baseline from berdych sends his latest service game to 30-30 , but a fierce first serve soon eases the czech back ahead . tomic then fails to return a wide kick-serve inside the baseline , allowing the seventh seed to hold in another relatively comfortable service game .
wow - this does n't happen every often . ferrer concedes three double faults on the opening four points to give murray the chance to break back , and he obliges when ferrer can only send a backhand into the net .
can raonic stage a comeback ? ? with the way djokovic is playing it feels unlikely , but stranger things have happened . the third set does n't start well for milos who is shown how to finish at the net by djokovic . however , he 's clearly leant the lesson , after a deft two-volley finish has novak scrambling . djokovic earns himself a break point though , but raonic saves it with a 141mph serve . as you do . the canadian holds with another big serve , showing plenty of guts .
another unbelievable point ! tsonga is the man playing the more dazzling shots in this one , flicking a volley with panache . but it 's a simply marvelous lob from gasquet that wins the point . he then goes on to hold , forcing tsonga to serve it out .
buoyed from holding serve after a difficult game , lu goes on the attack , but murray manages to land a tricky forehand effort on the baseline , frustrating his opponent . a couple of big serves help him hold serve again .
djokovic holds with the best point of the match yet ! he plays the cutest of drop shots following a brilliant rally to leave murray treading water . the way he celebrated that , you 'd have thought he 'd won the tournament ! will that kickstart the comeback ?
some brilliant serving from djokovic leaves us on the cusp of a fifth set . murray now serving to keep this fourth set alive .
it 's still early days , but nadal needs to respond quickly to try to disrupt djokovic 's momentum . both men play two great points apiece to get to 30-30 before djokovic misses out on a chance to earn a break point by clipping the top of the net with a forehand . he proceeds to go long on the next point and nadal gets on the board in the second set .
tsonga is looking a touch frustrated at the moment , with cilic cancelling out his power with some fine return placement . the frenchman has just about enough to move out 40-30 in front , only to fall back to deuce with a wayward forehand . the number 19 seed does not give up and replies with a huge bullet into the corner . he then holds when cilic goes long .
ebden again wins a service game with ease and he 's certainly on top at the moment . youzhny is hanging on and doing just enough to stay level . the next break is crucial .
these two are having a bit of ding-dong at the moment ! murray has saved three break points , with the score currently at deuce .
the two sides of kohlschreiber 's game are displayed in the opening three points , with a couple of strong forehands coming either side of a drop shot into the net . however , some heavy hitting from djokovic bring up break point , which the german saves with a backhand that is too hot to handle for the world number one . kohlschreiber 's drop shot is aided by the wind to bring up game point , but a top-spin forehand brings up deuce once more . that 's some hitting from kohlschreiber , who thunders a drive-volley winner from the back of the court , and he seals the game when djokovic goes long .
del potro holds to 15 .
isner has a match point on his own serve as malisse nets the simplest of backhand volleys . he 's furious and is sure to pay the ultimate price .
a quite incredible capitulation from berdych allows tomic to break right back at the start of the third set . with his service game finely poised at 30-30 the czech gets too aggressive on serve , sending successive double faults wide to bring the match level once more .
a champion 's response from novak , who holds to love for the third time tonight . he has dropped just four points in five service games .
double break ! wow ! shot of the game from rafa as he back pedals to hit an unimaginable forehand across court to open up a double-break .
nadal breaks : more relentless precision and power forces an error from djokovic , as nadal takes command in the opening set .
harrison holds to 15 in the opening game of set two , meaning that , for the time being , he takes the lead in the total points won competition .
another fantastic rally ! djokovic , at the net , keeps himself alive but is eventually passed as wawrinka can go left or right of him . then wawrinka wraps it up . that 's the first hold he 's made after being a break point down . what a contest this is becoming .
perfect way to back up the break as murray holds to love . he 's now one game away from taking us into a deciding fifth set .
strong start to the game for the czech as he forces nadal back and the spaniard hits the net with his first backhand of the game . another error on the forehand side follows from the spaniard , while berdych cracks his first ace down the middle , giving nadal no chance . he seals the game with a serve and volley as he slices the ball into the front of the court .
goffin concludes an entertaining rally with a brilliant overhead lob in the opening point of the game before getting a lucky hit on the net chord , which keeps his forehand just in play . tsonga fires his forehand long , but manages to make amends on the next point with a stunning winner , but the belgian manages to hold , taking the game with a delicate volley .
a massive hold is earned for federer , who moves 5-3 ahead to assume control of this contest . he will either need to break now or concede and hold serve afterwards in order to wrap up this second set .
stepanek recovers well from break point down to hold . a bit of pressure being exerted now by djokovic .
bautista agut races to a 40-15 lead , but a superb return from ferrer keeps him in the game . the fourth seed has the chance to take the game to deuce , just needing to make a simple forehand into an open court , but he mis-judges the shot and the ball fails to clear the net .
simon looks in better shape than he has at any point in the match as he secures the break with a forehand drive . he will now serve for the match after looking in real trouble less than 30 minutes ago .
a heavily-sliced backhand from federer forces the mistake out of his opponent , but murray gets a tad fortunate with a net cord on a cross-court backhand . a crushing forehand winner off the back foot helps murray to 30-15 , before he does the same off his backhand wing . he confirms the hold when federer frames a backhand and we are getting into the tense stages of this first set .
a couple of below-par serves from simon allow djokovic to take the game to deuce before forcing advantage . simon tries to save the break point , but he mis-hits a volley close into the net to hand djokovic the game .
federer is very much in the ascendancy right now and it 's going to be interesting to see how djokovic reacts . federer secures a hold to 15 and this is a big service game coming up for the world number one .
wawrinka has barely lost a point behind his serve but a double fault and a backhand error hand 15-30 to nishikori . that almost becomes 15-40 but the swiss somehow frames a smash over the net . wawrinka brings up set point with a forehand winner from inside the court and when nishikori goes long with a backhand , the defending champion has the opening set on the board .
nadal has looked unbeatable on serve so far , and although he throws in a double fault , he powers his way to 40-15 , and another first serve is sent wide by federer .
a little better from cilic to start as he scores early , but some brute force from djokovic has him back level after some great footwork and placement over the net . the scores move when novak invites the smash , only for cilic to stifle himself at 30-30. hmm a double fault gives novak another break chance , which is soon snatched away following a wonderful croatian ace . cilic eventually works towards his first game point of the match , only for another mistake to allow deuce . the current champ eventually sees out the hold to claim his first game of the contest , weird .
tsonga shows a touch of delicacy with a drop shot after some baseline shots and federer goes long with the reply . at 15-40 he fires a cross-court forehand winner , too . a rare mistake from federer sees him hit the net with a forehand from the baseline and then he goes wide to gift tsonga his second break point . this time he takes it ! really poor from federer there when he was up 40-15 and he has been punished .
an ace , right on cue , gives ferrer a hard-earned game . he found the very edge of the line there and spun it away from nishikori .
poor cilic , he can not do a thing right at the moment . he produces a forehand error on his own serve , before continuing into the net to go 30-0 behind . an ace gives him a chance at 30-15 and he takes it as novak comes up short on a simple exchange . continued poor return from cilic sees him in trouble at 40-30 ... and as you guessed it , djokovic pounces to grab with exquisite rally placement .
murray is n't wasting any time today . he holds to 15 and haase reallly does n't look like getting on the scoreboard at the moment .
it 's important from here onwards for murray to keep his level of intensity up , but after sharing the first four points , he dumps a shot into the net and it is break point from becker . however , the us open champion responds with an ace . after they move to the third deuce , becker creates another chance , but again , a strong first serve gets murray out of trouble and he seals the opening game of the second set . it 's all happening on court one , where rafael nadal has fallen two sets and a break behind to steve darcis !
well there were no signs of pressure there from kyrgios as all four of the australian 's serves are returned long from the world number one to give the 19-year-old a comfortable hold .
klizan is making this far too easy for the defending champion , as nadal quickly takes a 40-0 lead . a good forehand from the slovakian keeps him in the game a little longer , before a wild forehand , aided by the strengthening wind around the court , hit from nadal lands well out the court , but he seals the game off the next point with a drop shot .
a badly-timed volley and a long forehand allow tsonga to take a 30-0 lead . a few mistakes from the fifth seed allow federer to get back in to the game , but tsonga hits a superb volley to take the game to deuce . he brings up break point with a breathtaking cross-court forehand which just clips the sideline , leaving federer rooted to the spot . a long forehand from federer gives tsonga the break back . the swiss started this set looking strong , but has crumbled over the last couple of games .
now then . djokovic fires long and surrenders his serve very easily for a second time . the defending champion is n't quite with it at the moment , while ferrer is his usual frenetic self .
that 's classy from haas , who sends a single-handed backhand down the line , but he goes on to make errors on both sides to hand his opponent 15-30. he does well to avoid conceding two sets points by forcing djokovic into a forehand error , which he builds on with a stunning first serve . that 's quite a response from haas , who seals the game when djokovic sends a return long .
djokovic sends down his first ace of the match to lead 15-0 , but two mistakes give murray an opening at 15-30. a well-directed second serve gets djokovic out of trouble for now , but murray secures another break point with a fine backhand return . it 's saved excellently , though , when djokovic serves and volleys for the first time tonight and he comes through in confident fashion . murray has had chances to break in all three service games , but he has only converted once .
matosevic establishes a 30-15 lead before he is on the end of some bad luck off a net cord to allow federer back into the game . the swiss then produces a stunning top-spin lob that beats the australian , but he saves the first break point of the match when federer nets . matosevic saves another with an ace down the middle , but two double faults in a row and federer has the break !
perfect from murray who serves to love . berdych has struggled to regain the foot speed that he possessed during the first set .
nothing to trouble djokovic in that game as he holds comfortably to go back in front .
match ! the first two points of the game are shared before golubev , via an element of luck and skill , finds the sideline with a backhand slice that completely deceives djokovic . however , the world number 56 can do nothing with a couple of djokovic serves , and the 2011 winner books his place in the second round when golubev goes wide with another attempted backhand slice .
federer holds to 15 to pile the pressure on his opponent , who will now try again to serve for the second set .
no problem for the american , who holds to 15. however , he must now break nadal to keep the opener alive ...
murray catches the line with two huge serves to earn three game points before a drive volley into the open court seals the game .
the first two points are shared , before murray edges ahead with an ace . the scot then brings up two game points before he crunches an emphatic forehand winner from the back of the court .
berdych starts the match well , swinging out a wide first serve on the first point and forcing the error on the second . murray is very much on the defensive and after netting a forehand , he finds the ball flying past him as berdych wraps up a love game with an ace .
federer holds to 15 .
roddick makes fognini work hard but the flamboyant italian battles hard to hold for a third time .
gasquet manages to hold . to be fair , he 's done well to stay within striking distance of his countryman so far . surely tsonga can not keep up this form . there has to be a dip at some point down the line .
the belgian finds a top backhand at 40-15 down but ca n't get back the american 's serve on the next as isner takes the opener in 33 minutes .
it 's a love service game for wawrinka , but you got the impression that nadal was holding out there and saving every ounce of energy that he has to get him through this upcoming service game . if he wins it , he will force this final into a fourth set , which did n't look like likely 20 minutes ago .
it looks like muller is going to start the second set with a relatively straight-forward service game , but djokovic produces a superb backhand to keep himself in the game . muller halts any hopes of an early break for the top seed though , wrapping it up with a powerful forehand inside the baseline .
nadal fires wide in the opening point of the fifth game to leave djokovic 0-15 ahead , but the spaniard hits a wonderful passing shot moments later to level the scores . nadal then moves 30-15 ahead following another sensational exchange , before djokovic fires long to hand nadal game point . the spaniard indeed takes it to move 4-1 ahead in the fourth .
nice and easy for nadal to get on the board in the second . his first serve has been very good so far and when he gets it in he usually gets the point . monfils went for the big return again but put it out of play . it 's crucial for him not to be broken here .
federer is n't too down and he comes up good with some quick work to draw level at 15-15. he then goes in front with a rush to the net that calls for a huge smash from the 33-year-old . another wonderful rally comes to an end when roger pulls off a killer blow on his backhand down the line to bring about a break-point chance . he soon takes it when simon fires long .
the pole does so . both men are now looking unstoppable on serve at the moment .
the power on some of becker 's groundstrokes are immense , but it is also bringing a few errors , and two more move murray to 15-30. the german plays a fine one-two off his serve , but murray brings up break point after moving into the court to put away a return . a mis-timed smash from murray is complemented with a rash backhand from becker , and murray moves one game away from the second set . out on court one , darcis is serving for the match against darcis .
the net-cord has n't been djokovic 's friend today . at 30-15 , djokovic looks ready to hit a forehand winner for 30-30 , but it hits the net and goes wide . however , he remains focused to take the next two points for deuce , but a poor backhand goes wide and djokovic is furious - he thumps his racquet into the ground . but , he channels his frustration positively to bring up a break point , but nadal steps into court with a precise drop shot before taking the next two points , much to the anger of the serb .
goffin races to a 30-0 lead with some superb play at the net , but tsonga fights back with a couple of well-timed returns . however , the 22-year-old manages to wrong-foot tsonga behind the baseline to seal the game . this opening set is still with serve .
another miscue from federer and that 's a massive moment - the first break of the match .
dolgopolov is moving fantastically but he ca n't match monfils , who has found another gear in the last few minutes . some fantastic returns from the frenchman lead to the 18th seed putting the ball in the net on break point , and now monfils will serve for the match .
dimitrov open with a forehand winner before coming into the net later in the game for a stunning overhead smash . he keeps djokovic in the game when he hits his forehand into the net on the next point . both players end up on the ground as they dive for volleys at the net , but it 's dimitrov who comes out on top to seal the game .
i did n't see this coming after the first set . sousa holds to love for a second time in succession and murray is growing a little frustrated with himself . he needs to find a way of discouraging sousa because his confidence is growing .
it 's another simple service game for murray , who is now just three games away from the final . i 'm sure he has n't , but berdych looks like he has given up .
after easily taking a 30-0 lead , federer serves a double fault . he finds a big serve to force tsonga to mis-hit the return , before hitting his forehand too hard to give federer the game .
murray screams `` come on ! '' after taking the first point , and it gets him on the way to 30-15. federer makes it 30-30 , but what a point on the next ! a 23-shot rally sees murray fail to convert a comfortable volley , but he recovers to force federer to net . that was a massive point ! an ace out wide seals the game .
we 've been treated some quite ridiculous shots this morning and kyrgios adds to the collection with a backhand flick from the back of the court that catches the line . murray misses out on a chance for 30-30 and that allows kyrgios to ease to a hold to 15 .
kyrgios will have to serve to keep himself in the set again as nadal hits a series of solid forehand winners past the australian .
despite serving two double faults janowicz gets a second hold , which must feel good as kubot fails to take advantage of those errors . no sign so far of nerves from the two players in baseline exchanges as court one finally begins to fill up .
rafa holds to love , closing the game out with glorious back-to-back forehand winners .
tipsarevic gets the hold and moves 4-2 ahead in this second set .
break back ! isner earns two break-back points thanks to a big forehand and he takes the second to restore parity in the third set .
federer continued to take it easy on his own serve , with another couple of aces helping him to a 40-0 lead before securing the game when lacko fires a forehand effort wide .
djokovic double faults to go 15-15 but then quickly regains his lead in the game with an ace , followed by a backhand winner . both players then trade forehand misses as novak holds to 30 .
brutal . djokovic backs up two serves by putting away the second shot into the corners before three set points are created when tsonga goes wide . the second set is taken when tsonga sends a forehand wide and in under an hour , djokovic moves one away from the last eight .
pospisil 's fourth ace of the match secures a 30-0 lead , but the deficit is halved when murray catches the line with a slice . the canadian throws in a double fault to gift murray a look at 30-30 , but murray gifts a point back to his opponent with a poor forehand . the game is sealed with a drop shot to regain the lead , and judging by the clouds , we could be in for some rain .
cilic gets the ball rolling with a fairly routine hold . it 's a real sickener looking at those empty seats on armstrong . there are plenty of fans there but you can forget about any sort of atmosphere .
a superbly timed backhanded dropshot catches tipsarevic out , and helps lacko get another game on the board .
ace number 20 for isner ensures malisse is n't celebrating , yet .
djokovic blinks first in the first point as he fires wide to hand nadal a 15-0 lead , but nadal nets moments later following a powerful forehand from djokovic , before a similar exchange moves the serbian ahead . nadal responds to level at 30-30 , before djokovic fires long to hand the spaniard game point , but deuce arrives following a whipped forehand from djokovic . the serbian sets up break point with a backhand return , but he fires long as deuce two arrives . nadal does indeed close it out as djokovic fires long .
what a rally . the two players move each other around the court before tsonga 's attempted passing shot is dispatched by federer at the net . it 's the start of an easy hold for federer , who has taken just 23 minutes to move one game away from the first set .
darcis challenges a call after nadal sends a bullet down the line , with hawkeye confirming that the ball was definitely in . the spaniard uses that momentum to claim his first hold to love , with the points in this second set getting noticeably shorter as the pace falls off for both players .
kokkinakis is certainly going for his shots . the young man does not seem at all fazed by the occasion . nadal holds to 15 and looks very comfortable with his opponent 's approach , but , if the aussie keeps playing the same way , he may well nick a break at some point today , which would a great memento to take away .
murray begins his opening service game with two solid first serves that are n't returned by federer , but a double fault breaks the run of consecutive first serves in the match . a first ace for murray earns two game points before another huge delivery catches the line to secure the hold .
federer registers another ace to move 15-0 ahead , before robredo fires wide for 30-0. a fine pass from robredo moves the spaniard onto the board at 30-15 , before fed nets for 30-30. another ace - following a challenge - moves the swiss 40-30 ahead and he holds when robredo nets once more . brilliant serving from fed thus far .
kyrgios notches up another two aces on his way to a comfortable hold . nadal really has n't come close to testing to testing the australian 's serve yet .
federer hits the alley to go 0-15 down , but hits a superb backhand winner to level the score . a gasquet error moves the swiss star into the lead , before the frenchman hits a backhand effort beyond his opponent 's baseline to give federer two break point opportunities . gasquet recovers with the first , but federer makes no mistake with the second , hitting a neat volley at the net .
sloppy approach to the net from the frenchman and tipso slashes a passing forehand into the empty space , presumably saying `` thank you '' for making a vital service game quite so easy .
yet another easy game for djokovic . ferrer gets in to a rally with his opponent but sends the ball to the net , and takes a defensive approach to the rest of the game , allowing the world number one to dominate .
and hold he does . boy was it hard work though . djokovic appears to be getting fresher and fresher at the moment . murray needs a break of serve , somehow !
chance wasted by muzza and he 's now two games behind in the third set and still has plenty of work to do . he looks completely uninterested at the moment , but is still producing the odd moment of lethargic magic .
del potro comes through after squandering the 40-0 lead . he 's now one game away from levelling this match up at one set all .
janowicz draws within a game of victory . devvarman is looking devvarstated ... i do apologise , i just could n't help myself .
match ! djokovic regains the lead with another serve out wide , but tsonga responds with another power serve down the middle . huge from tsonga , who blasts down another ace to the same place . that registered 133mph . what a response from djokovic , though , who fires a drive volley into the open court . will it be set point to tsonga or match point to djokovic ? it 's match point to djokovic after a return from tsonga goes long . djokovic makes a blistering return and thinks he has won the match , but it 's called out . djokovic challenges , and wins the challenge ! what drama . djokovic is through to the quarter-finals .
ferrer hits long and djokovic has the early break in this second set . he looks a totally different player today .
ferrer gets a break again , edging a close game against baghdatis . both men are playing well at the minute .
making up for his lack of resistance on federer 's serve , simon starts strongly on his own . however , federer produces a telling whip across the court to punish a poor second serve at 30-15. federer goes further ahead for the break point when simon cuts far too long . the swiss maestro succeeds again at the second break point as simon can only find the net yet again . federer is serving for the match now ...
a 13th ace of the match brings up 40-0 for djokovic but haas prolongs the inevitable for a while with a fantastic shot . djokovic says 'anything you can do , i can do better ' with a delicate drop shot to hold .
a really important hold from murray . it 's now four each . really hard to tell which way this set is going to go . both have shown weaknesses during the opening eight games .
wawrinka comes into this contest having won 10 matches in a row and he makes an impressive start to trying to achieve an 11th with a hold to love . the first serve and shots off the ground already seem to be firing .
berdych misses a first serve due to some rumblings in the crowd , djokovic very sportingly allows him to retake the serve , and in the end it 's a good game for the czech , as he remains in touch in this set .
nadal fights hard to try and get the set wrapped up , taking the game to deuce , but kyrgios fires back-to-back aces past his opponent to keep the set level .
djokovic claims the opening couple of points before sousa fights back , but another backhand mistake gives the world number two a chance to break . sousa forces a poor return from djokovic to save the point , but he eventually concedes when djokovic forces a long forehand from the world number 44 , giving the serb a break following an epic nine-minute game .
at 40-0 up djokovic gives goffin the runaround but disappointingly nets a drop shot when standing almost on top of it . that 's the only blemish on an otherwise perfect service game .
the swiss is playing like a man who has no pressure on his shoulders now , and while that is untrue , it 's dangerous signs for djokovic . three big first serves help wawrinka to a love hold of his own .
two quick-fire points for novak move the swiss 30-0 ahead , but he then places a backhand just wide for 30-15. the pair then exchange points for 40-30 , but djokovic holds with another ace .
a hold to love for djokovic ought to finally knock the wind out of istomin 's sails , though . he has to hold to stay in the match .
the frustration of the missed match point results in some huge serves from murray , as lu fails to get any returns in , giving the brit what has probably been the easiest and quickest hold of the match so far .
and with the most emphatic of smashes , djokovic wins the third set . i 'm going to stick my neck on the line and say that if djokovic wins the next set , he will win the title . murray needs to get the job done now .
brands start the game well but a couple of brilliant shots from nadal sees him take a 30-15 lead . a pair of big serves from the german gets him back on course , and he seals the game with his fourth ace of the match .
after a frenetic period in the match berydch finds some stability on serve , holding to love with a series of well-executed baseline strikes . tomic is far from out of this match but must now serve to keep the third set alive .
a brilliant volley gives lopez the lead , before djokovic hits the net to go 0-30 down . the serb finds a way back through a lopez error though , before lopez hits a neat drop shot from the net to regain the momentum . lopez takes the game after djokovic 's return fires beyond the spaniard 's baseline . all very tight so far in this fourth set - who will take the initiative ?
that was a much-needed hold from nishikori . evans helps him out with two unforced errors , but a fine drop-shot was impressive from the world number 12. evans is showing so much desire in this match , and he records three points in a row to get back to deuce , but he goes for too much on a second-serve return , before slicing the ball into the net .
it 's another easy hold for del potro . can he challenge the djokovic serve once again ?
again , it 's a real battle of power as dimitrov races to a big lead , forcing his opponent all over the place . the bulgarian gave the serb a chance of taking the game to deuce when he blasted an effort into the crowd . dimitrov held on though to take his first game .
well , that was emphatic . nadal has really improved his first serve in recent years and that was out in force just now . each one went wide and had plenty of kick , which wawrinka could simply return straight to the spaniard , who tucked away the next shot . one game apiece .
he 's so dominant on his serve federer . i just can not see how paire can get back in this without having even a glimpse of a look at the swiss 's serve .
will that help nishikori settle into this quarter-final ? he holds to love with minimal fuss .
fantastic work , especially off the forehand from muzza . he 's not going for too much here but just working robredo so , so hard at the baseline .
break back ! djokovic appears to be in control of the game , but simon levels the scores will a superb forehand down the line before following it up with a cross-court effort to bring up a break back point , which he claims when the top seed taps his forehand into the net , getting the set back on serve .
far from convincing that from murray but he 's ahead at the start of the third . now we 'll see how youzhny 's shoulder holds up when serving .
break back ! game on ! petzschner fails to take his first break point but converts the second with a ferocious forehand down the line that whizzes past almagro .
he does exactly that ( to 15 )
kyrgios is serving for the chance to prevent murray from taking the first set , while another break for murray puts him ahead in the contest . some sloppy tennis at 40-40 sees murray take the advantage after a deuce , before the scotsman challenges well against a serve call to keep ahead . the next play sees things move back to deuce as murray fires out of the court . the aussie then moves ahead this time by forcing an error , but is pegged back by murray . after a long back-and-forth of advantage and deuce , a resurgent kyrgios wins with a strong forehand effort .
dodig gets it to deuce . there 's life in the old dog yet .
it 's pretty much point-for-point on the nieminen serve , before haas completely skies a backhand and puts a drop shot into the net for nieminen to level once more .
for just the second time in the match , murray has 0-15 on the canadian 's serve , but he replies with another sublime volley . the 25-year-old is playing some brilliant stuff and he races through the remainder of the game with more impressive net play behind his serve .
again it is stunning from djokovic as he whips a forehand onto the line for 15-0 , before federer nets as the serbian moves 30-0 ahead . another comfortable forehand - following a powerful serve - brings 40-0 and djokovic holds when federer slices one high into the air .
davydenko looks to have found something . his serve is too strong for federer , as the russian easily holds serve for the first time in the match .
perfect response from goffin as he holds to love . he could n't have done more than that and it 's up to verdasco to win it here .
fantastic start to his service game , with a superb baseline drop-shot at 15-0. youzhny responds with a big forehand down the line but ebden holds comfortably to force youzhny to serve for the set .
klizan opens with an ace to move 15-0 ahead , before nadal fires long for 30-0. that becomes 40-0 when nadal clips a forehand wide and klizan holds when nadal nets . strong play from klizan .
wow ... there you have it , three aces in a row for federer and game two is over within a minute . stunning stuff .
nadal holds to 30 .
a spirited show of resistance from kubot there on serve , hanging tough and showing neat touch to get his tall opponent off balance and keep the second set on serve . but only just !
important hold for gulbis after those two break points .
i ca n't quite get over how subdued the crowd are . maybe they were expecting to see the richard gasquet match on philippe chatrier and they feel short-changed ? there is a bit more energy about nishikori in this game , hitting back to make it 30-30 , and he has break point when nadal goes wide , but he disappointingly hits the ball into the net , and loses the following two points to concede the game .
right now , it 's difficult to see how federer is going to break wawrinka . the eighth seed is not giving the 2009 champion a look in on his serve as he races to another hold to 15 .
ferrer is looking to get in from the back of the court more , but dolgopolov does the same , delicately placing the ball past his opponent . the spaniard goes for a drop shot , but it drops before it reaches the net , and a superb forehand down the sideline from dolgopolov leaves the fourth seed facing break point . dolgopolov tries too hard on the return to bring up deuce , before ferrer claims advantage with an ace . the fourth seed gets the hold when his opponent slices the ball into the net . it 's been a pretty cagey start to this deciding set .
that said , he may not have the biggest serve but gasquet has performed relatively well behind his own delivery . a couple of neat forehand conversions help him to an easy hold , but he needs to find a way to break the serbian 's serve , something that he has n't done since the third game of the match .
nadal 's first serve is return to the net , while an ace puts the sixth seed 30-15 up . almagro fights hard to try to keep himself in contention , attacking at the net to force an error from the sixth seed , but a couple of wayward backhands from the world number 154 hand nadal the game .
this set is a battle of wits and both are holding their own serve thus far - but can it last ? one mistake will be fatal i reckon . if there 's one cause for concern it 's gasquet 's service , which has looked erratic . he 's conceded three double faults in this match - and another one in that previous game after being 40-0 up , but he survived it .
haas again with a strong service game . it does n't look likely to let him down again and nieminen serves to save the set once more .
ferrer is just one game away from the final after holding to 30. court philippe chatrier is flat , as was the bounce on the baseline that bamboozled tsonga on game point .
- what a point ! drop shots , baseline hits and even a volleyed lob from rafa are what it took to take that one ! set one tie-break
it 's a quick start to the game from murray , who never gives djokovic a moment to settle and pick his spot . the scot uses the court ever so well , hitting three winners before sealing the third game with an ace . meanwhile , here 's jamie murray - andy 's brother - on twitter : 2hrs 30mins for 2 sets . these guys are a different breed . who can continue to keep this level longest ? # ausopen  jamie murray ( @ jamie_murray ) february 1 , 2015
and he takes it to win his first game for over three quarters of an hour . despite that , he continues to grimace and hold his groin .
nope . a forehand from djokovic this time does n't make it into court and del potro similarly hangs on to his serve after being pegged back to 40-30 .
rochus comes back from losing the first set to hold to love . ferrer had no answer to his accurate serving and confident forehand .
what a way to record your first point . nadal attempts a passing shot at the net but rosol directs a sharp volley cross-court that nadal ca n't reach . rosol gets to 30-0 but an error and a delightful nadal forehand soon sees the spaniard back into the game . however , that 's more clinical from the czech , who steps into court to put away a couple of forehands .
djoko goes one better than the opening game by holding to love , wrapping up the game with a lovely one-two punch . he kicks a serve out to del potro 's backhand before arrowing a backhand winner down the line . gorgeous .
anderson keeps his cool after missing out on those three set points to force ferrer into taking us into a tie-break .
a challenge from djokovic is frivolous , and he 's back on serve to stay in the match . there was n't much of a threat to wawrinka 's serve there .
murray converts the second break point as cilic drives wide . the scot will now serve for the second set .
the serb comes through another service game without any problems , with reynolds unable to return anything on his opponent 's consistent first serve . after just four points the american is straight back under pressure on serve , with the top seed needing a single game to claim this second set .
a defiant no , from djokovic . the serb holds to love and just as the last set we 're staying with serve . it was at this point in the first , of course , that djokovic managed his break .
if anybody is in and around the wimbledon area there 's a free tennis ball sitting beside the path in your estate , because gasquet has just put it there with a terrible return that most probably flew out of the stadium . other than that , it was a solid service game and he levels up the set .
djokovic takes a little over a minute to notch up another game , with dimitrov struggling to return his serves , and the top seed adding another ace , he 's up to 15 in this match now .
a well-placed shot from the baseline from robredo forces gasquet to net , but the gasquet backhand already looks in good working order , and he uses it to fire a winner down the line for 30-15. robredo fights back to take the game to deuce , but gasquet earns game point with a thunderous forehand from the back of the court . a three-game lead is sealed when a first serve is n't returned , and it 's another hold for gasquet .
there was a possibility that federer might become intimidated by the heavy-hitting of his compatriot , but he has n't wilted whatsoever . a hold to love and wawrinka must serve to remain in the set .
a backhand return from murray sets up the easy conversion for 15-15 but federer replies with his 17th ace . murray then floats a return long , before murray remains in the game with a forehand winner . a drilled backhand gets the scot to deuce , but again , federer comes up with an ace when he needs it before whipping a forehand winner into the corner . so far , this is one of the great serving performances .
after the first two points are shared , djokovic smashes his way to 30-15 before murray concedes two game points with a tame backhand into the net . a 123mph first serve gets the job done for djokovic and he is warming into this third set .
murray misses another couple of first serves , but when he does get it in , federer struggles on the return , and it 's a fairly comfortable hold for murray .
impressive from verdasco as he steadies himself after losing the first two points of that game to hold to 30 .
robredo finds some strong serves to stretch his opponent , making his deliveries difficult to return , despite missing a couple of his first serves . robredo quickly takes a 40-15 lead before sealing the game with a brilliant forehand winner . that was robredo 's most comfortable service game of the match so far .
an efficient game from federer sees him hold to 15. the concluding point was a joy to behold , with federer finishing it off with a forehand scoop at the net that caught the line .
the two players have taken their time to find their feet since returning to court before the start of the fourth set , but an intense rally at 40-15 indicates that they are ready to up the intensity . robredo won that exchange , but he loses the game as gasquet moves back in front .
nadal runs around his forehand in the opening point to move 15-0 ahead , before a stunning backhand moves the spaniard 30-0 ahead . just stunning from both players , who are putting on some show this early evening in new york . it quickly becomes 40-0 as djokovic is unable to meet a delicate placement from the spaniard , before djokovic fires long to hand the game to nadal .
cilic records back-to-back aces for a 30-0 lead but he fires long of the baseline with a miscued backhand . it 's a momentarily lapse from the croatian though , who holds to 15 after a nishikori error .
despite the pressure from murray , janowicz comes through that tough service game to consolidate the break with another ace . he had three in that game alone . one less than he 'd had in the entire game before that .
federer seeks to lay down his attentions with aggressive attacking play at the net , but novak replies with a strong volley from the middle . the serb tries to lob federer , who returns with a brutal point on the smash . a stunning whip is then produced by djokovic down into the corner as the scores move level . novak produces a forehand error , leaving federer to claim the game when his opponent 's return finds the mesh .
shift in power once more ? ! nadal moves 15-0 ahead as djokovic nets from inside the baseline , before djokovic fires long to hand nadal a two-point lead . the world number one then misses a simple volley to hand his opponent three game points - the second of which is taken as nadal keeps this one on serve .
big rally ends in another unforced error from lu and monfils takes the set .
amazing point ! djokovic finds the baseline with a lob but stepanek goes over his lead to plant it superbly in court . a few shots later djokovic 's lob is long and off dances the czech ! great stuff . he holds well .
gasquet is warming to the task in the early stages , but at 15-30 , he fails to put away a forehand inside the court after chasing down a drop shot . the world number takes the next two points to complete a solid hold .
blake 's turn to hold this time . meanwhile , tomas berdych has just started his third-round match with sam querrey . updates as and when they happen from that one .
ferrer finds the net with a backhand and tipsarevic has the hold . the spaniard will now serve to stay in the us open . the tension has been ramped up .
really strong hold from stepanek , who finishes off the game with his first ace of the set . now , can he get a look at the djokovic serve here ? he has to soon or he 's out .
matosevic takes the opening point and he should arguably move to 40-0 ahead . however , a sublime cross-court forehand from federer and miscued smash from matosevic see the second seed bring up 15-30 , but a fired-up matosevic takes three points in a row to hold serve . very impressive stuff from the underdog .
an early errors sees federer shoot wide and give simon a chance at 15-15 , but the seven-time champ is back on song with a bit of luck handed out by the net . continued grit on the serve gives the game to federer , who is striding towards a comfortable win .
stunning from djokovic . he saves three break points before going on to hold . he 's looking very good right now . ferrer serving to stay in the set , but this one looks well beyond his reach .
nadal tries to hit back against the czech and he manages to win the first point with a good strike to force the error . however , berdych 's next two serves are right on the money are the spaniard can barely lay a racquet on them before they fly past his outstretched hand . the czech does it again before firing an ace down the middle , and there 's not much rafa can do about that , but acknowledge excellent play from berdych .
verdasco continues to show his mettle by holding to 15 , sealing the game with an ace out-wide that sends up a puff of white paint to show that it was in .
big game there for djokovic , who holds comfortably to put the pressure right back on goffin . the belgian , however , has dealt with it superbly up to this point . if he manages to again , we 'll be heading into a tie-break .
federer hangs in tight to win the second set after a thrilling tiebreak . he came back from the brink a few times in that extra period . novak might have let him off once or twice , and that could be viewed as a huge opportunity missed by the current champion .
golubev claims the first point of the game when murray fires wide , before the scot hits a forehand long to leave the server with a 30-0 lead . another wide forehand allows golubev to move 40-0 ahead and the 26-year-old secures the hold with a backhand down the line .
lacko comes in to the net to attack federer with a backhand volley , but a long forehand on the next point from the slovakian leveled the scores . however , federer fired a forehand long himself next time around , giving lacko the game .
a lengthy first rally sees mayer slice the ball wide of the line , and murray takes the initiative with his third ace . mayer looks like he has control of the next point , but he fires another shot wide and murray is 3-0 ahead . the german is crumbling , but after floating a forehand long , murray goes for too much on a return . the players reach the change of ends at 5-1 after a well-placed serve is n't returned by mayer .
roddick has got it ! awesome performance from the american in the breaker sees him take it 7-1. game on now .
gasquet forces an error from his opponent to take the lead , but federer responds as the frenchman ends a rally with an error . gasquet hits a superb backhand shot beyond federer to go 30-15 up , before a federer error takes that score to 40. gasquet wraps the point up after an impressive rally .
now it 's ferrer who is serving perfectly . most of his first serves were on target , which made it easy to pick off dodig . can the croat respond before this set gets away from him ?
once again it 's a hold for djokovic , but it 's not as comfortable as his previous game , with sousa looking ever more confident . however , at 30-30 , the serb takes the lead with an ace , before sealing the game with a powerful forehand winner .
what 's this then ? malisse is sarcastically conducting the crowd 's boos after he contested a call . his petulence does little good though as isner holds to-love . the american , after looking down-and-out in this set , is now within one game of the match .
and it is another comfortable service hold for wawrinka . can anyone get a look-in at a break yet ? so far there has n't been one .
really good hold from djokovic and it 's a second tie break .
dimitrov took a fantastic opening point by smashing a slam dunk style effort past the stunned serb . however , djokovic recovered to hit three straight points but was still forced to deuce after some good play from dimitrov . the serb takes the game again though as dimitrov hits a simple return shot into the net to end the game .
federer hits a superb backhand shot from the net that leaves gasquet with no opportunity to reach the ball , and takes the score to 30-0. good work by federer at the net forces an error from gasquet , before a superb backhand pass wins the game .
it 's been a bit of a mixed bag from nishikori . he concedes a double fault , but fires back with two unreturnable serves to move to 40-15. however , two shots into the net give evans deuce , and some stunning hitting from the back of the court give him break point , and he gets back on level terms after nishikori floats the ball wide .
haase knows that all he has to do is stay calm because murray 's lack of movement means that he ca n't win enough points for a game . could the 2012 champion 's tournament end at the first round ?
djokovic goes 30-0 up , before kohlschreiber goes for yet another drop shot , but the serb is soon on it to hit the winner . kohlschreiber has had a lot of success with the drop shot this afternoon , but it is getting too predictable at the minute .
break back ! it 's back on serve in this one after tipsarevic hits a woeful forehand wide and long .
break and set ! oh no this is poor from wawrinka , whose service game buckles at the wrong time . brilliant tennis saw gasquet move 40-15 ahead , before a double fault from the swiss saw his french counterpart snatch the fourth set ! i honestly thought we were heading to a tiebreak . i could n't see either breaking serve ! two sets apiece and this is nicely poised . let 's have a decider !
classic wide serve and winner down the line from goffin , who has just started finding the line with a lot of his shots . verdasco gets back into it superbly with a fizzing forehand that grazes the baseline but returns long next to go behind in the set .
after a strong start , both men have struggled on serve in the last two games . however , ferrer too manages to save a break point to hold .
novak holds to love . there is no suggestion that sousa 's knee is causing him any problems . djokovic is just in sublime form .
`` vamos ! '' roars the spaniard as he converts on his second break point to move clear in the second set . he managed to break thanks to a bullet backhand return that kukushkin could n't get back over the net .
a bit of the potency from dolgopolov 's serve seem to be missing in his first service game of the fourth set , but his accuracy is good , and causes some mistakes from ferrer to secure a hold for the 26th seed .
murray comes through with a hold to 30 but there are signs are sousa is finding his feet . he 's playing much more aggressively and it 's giving murray plenty to think about .
some back-and-forth on the service now with federer dominating his own show . he goes 30-0 when novak produces two errors , which are furthered by federer 's next forehand winner . roger responds to novak 's backhand winner with an ace to win game eight .
break point is saved as dimitrov stays positive and pressurises nadal into missing a tricky backhand . two more forced errors from the spaniard follow as dimitrov levels the set at 3-3 .
djokovic is well in control of this match now . there are too many unforced errors from berdych , allowing the defending champion an easy hold again .
djokovic 's drop shots are really finding their range now . giffin sprints for the latest one , but can only hit the top of the net . he still just has the one break , though , as goffin claims the hold with a big shot that defies his size .
after the opening two points are shared , murray fires a wild forehand over the baseline , but he gets to 30-30 when federer dumps a forehand into the net . a big first serve and an ace down the middle get him out of trouble on this occasion .
a backhand slice helps darcis move to within two games of a straight-sets win over the two-time wimbledon champion , quite incredible . nadal was noticeably unable to chase down two shots in that last game , but continues to press on without asking for medical assistance .
verdasco with a confidence-boosting hold . murray was ahead at 15-30 but the spaniard found some colossal serves to ensure that the scot did n't make it any more than a sniff of a break .
that 's not like isner at all ! the american slumps to 0-40 before producing a rare double fault at 15-40 ! malisse will now serve for the set .
the frenchman forces the mistake out of djokovic and holds .
more routine fare for janowicz on serve , crashing a ferocious 135mph effort down the line for his 23rd ace and a quick hold . if the 22-year-old can maintain that standard surely his first grand slam semi-final awaits .
the double faults are beginning to come off the racquet of wawrinka and when nishikori follows that up with a backhand return winner , it 's 0-30. it 's a super recovery from the swiss number one who follows three big serves with a beautiful backhand that drops inside the court .
federer holds with ease .
djokovic breaks : nadal saves two break points but then provides the serb with a third , which is converted when the defending champion drills a forehand into the tramline on the ad court .
big serving from berdych helps him hold to 30 and take the lead for the first time this evening .
emphatic from ferrer as he holds to love . the spaniard is experiencing something of a resurgence now .
this is a captivating contest . it 's equally interesting to hear the language from both players . the air has been turned as blue as the clear sky in paris . on this occasion , the frustration is from murray after falling 15-40 behind but somehow , the scot recovers to deuce with a cross-court backhand lob that catches out his opponent . a drop shot from murray helps him seal the game and move one away from the opening set .
it 's a love game from tipsy now to make it 3-3. his levels have dropped marginally but he 's still playing out of his skin .
the wind appears to be picking up on the philippe chatrier court and kohlschreiber is the player who is dealing with it the better . he moves to 0-30 , but he makes the wrong shot selection and allows djokovic to reach 15-30. however , after being warned about the time taken between serves , djokovic double faults , and kohlschreiber has two break points . he fails to take advantage with either , going long on both occasions , and we have deuce . he does the same on the next points too , and djokovic is one game away from the set .
the first break point is saved when tipsarevic shanks a forehand , but he takes the second as ferrer hits wide . what a start for the serbian .
the crowd are loving this now . the duo trade forehand winners before djokovic restores a bit of calm with a big first serve . a second serve is effective for two game points , and wawrinka leaves himself having to serve for the set when he strikes a wayward forehand .
a seventh ace helps djokovic swiftly claim a hold to love , consolidating the break to put the top seed in complete control of the second set . reynolds will really have to dig deep now , a set and a break down and struggling slightly to maintain his intensity on centre court .
murray makes him work hard but berdych eventually holds for a 4-3 lead . murray seems to be slicing the ball a little too often at the moment .
djokovic appears to get the benefit of a strike of the net chord , but stepanek sprints into the net to make the return and take a 30-0 lead . the czech appears to be controlling a long rally with djokovic , stretching the world number two the length of the baseline , but he slices his backhand into the net to allow djokovic to edge ahead , before a long stepanek forehand gives the serb the game .
a well-aimed return gets cilic off to a positive start but nishikori is soon back on the offensive when he puts away a forehand . cilic batters nishikori into submission on the next rally for 15-30 and he has two break points when nishikori nets . is this the moment for cilic ? it could just well be . nishikori saves the first chance but cilic outlasts his opponent on the next and he is three service games away from a resounding victory .
kyrgios shows some impressive shot placement to get the better of the world number one in a lengthy rally , but nadal ultimately has a comfortable hold to keep himself in the first set .
djokovic earns four set points but only needs one chance to take the lead , using width on a precise serve to wrap up the opening set . a gutsy effort from reynolds but ultimately it was n't enough to turn the first set his way . a shame for the american , who has given a worthy account of himself so far this evening .
nadal moves 0-15 ahead when klizan fires a relatively simple forehand past the baseline , but 15-15 occurs when nadal finds the net . an ace moves klizan 30-15 ahead , but the slovakian then fires long to leave the score at 30-30. klizan eventually secures the hold following a couple of errors from nadal .
federer cruises to another game win to take the set to 5-4. this is where he broke raonic in the first set to take the set , the canadian will be keen not to let him do the same this time .
perfect start for federer as he moves 0-15 ahead when robredo fires a forehand long , but the swiss then hits the net for 15-15. robredo follows suit in the next point for 15-30 , but federer then whips a forehand just wide for 30-30. the swiss sets up break point with a powerful volley , but then fires long for deuce . eventually federer secures the break when robredo nets twice in quick succession .
ferrer holds to 30. tsonga had chances in that game , but the frenchman is making too many errors . he will be very frustrated because he is two sets down and ferrer is only operating in third gear here . the spaniard 's solidity has been enough .
djokovic eases into a 0-30 advantage , but he is disgusted with himself when he sends a return from a second serve long . however , kohlschreiber proceeds to go long with a forehand and the world number one has two break points , which he seals when the german slices the ball into the net . could that prove pivotal ?
a cross-court return winner spells danger for federer , but three points in a row see him regain control . a miscued forehand keeps wawrinka competitive but federer responds by bringing the error out of his opponent .
a close game sees haas hold his serve , but only just . the german makes it hard for himself , unforced errors keeping nieminen in the game . a challenge at break point went haas 's way , giving him the momentum to serve out the game .
good stuff from stakhovsky as he outhits federer from the baseline to yet again level the set .
more early aggression from berydch there but his opponent just does enough to claim an important early hold for his confidence . the seventh seed is definitely hammering the ball today at every opportunity , so expect short points at either end of the court .
and he takes it with a heavy forehand return that kukushkin can only net . that 's six games in a row for rafa and he 's well on top after losing that first set .
brands uses his powerful serve to great effect , securing the first ace of the match . after taking a 40-0 lead , nadal spots his trying to rush in to volley and fires the ball towards the baseline , but the german seals the game on the next point , just clipping the line with a pacy forehand shot .
pretty straight-forward stuff for simon too . he places his serves accurately out wide to draw djokovic out of position before firing back into an open court to quickly wrap up the game .
the crowd are desperate for benneteau to make this match a contest and the frenchman responds , forcing a pair of errors with assertive play to build a 40-15 lead on serve . federer rises to the challenge and once again puts slice and topspin behind his backhand to respond , but another sloppy error lets benneteau off the hook as he regains the lead in this second set at 4-3 on serve .
easy hold for djokovic , forcing murray to serve to stay in the set for a second time in recent minutes . more pressure on the scot , whose best hope is now forcing a tie-breaker .
murray wraps up his next service game without issue and the break is consolidated .
almagro certainly is n't giving nadal any easy points at the moment as he ups the power on his serve , forcing nadal to return wide before firing his first ace of the match down the middle of the court . a long forehand briefly gives nadal hope , but he ca n't get his backhand back over the net on the next point , giving his opponent a comfortable hold .
wawrinka starts the game with an inside-out forehand into the corner but he goes for way too much on a backhand and federer is level . there 's no nerves from the swiss number two though , who finds his target with three serves for yet another hold to 15. federer just has n't got a look in on his opponent 's serve , now , he must serve to stay in the tournament .
well dolgopolov makes a strong start , finding some fast serves to race to a 40-0 lead before rounding the game off with an ace . aside from a couple of games in the fourth set , dolgopolov 's serving really has been superb this evening .
stan does what he can while serving and moves ahead with a service winner and a strong ace . federer pulls out a cheeky lob to earn a point , but wawrinka quickly closes out the game with a second service winner .
an excellent backhand volley sees kohlschreiber move to 30-15 , which is followed by a forehand winner and an ace to force djokovic to serve for the set , which is the most important game of the match so far .
make that three love service games in a row and we have reached 10-10 in the final set .
that could be pivotal . both players play cautiously from the baseline before ferrer slams his forehand into the net to give djokovic the break . could that be the telling moment in this set ?
gasquet eases to 30-0 , but robredo replies with a fine winner cross-court . the frenchman is unnerved though , and a smash into the open court ensures that the set remains on serve .
some more big serves from the canadian keep the first set on serve . the 13th seed closes the game with an ace . he thought he had one earlier in the game too , but a challenge from federer revealed it was a shade wide .
love hold for youzhny and he 's on the board in the third set .
much to the audible delight of the crowd , kokkinakis makes those new balls work for him , delivering his third ace of the match to seal a hold to 15 .
nadal fires into the tramline to hand wawrinka two break points , but he sends one into the net and the other with his forehand wide , bringing up deuce in the process . the next rally ends when the swiss goes far too long , giving nadal set point , but he can do little to prevent wawrinka 's powerful forehand winner . he goes long again , though , and second time around nadal makes no mistake . this is incredible really . by rights , nadal should n't even be on the court , let alone preparing for a fourth set .
another amazing forehand from murray has dodig beaten all ends up . 40-30 .
another love game for the champion , who really showed all the facets to his play in that one game . lovely stuff .
absolutely no problem for ferrer as he holds to love for the second time in the set .
an unlikely nadal double fault sets up break point for fognini , but he ca n't take advantage as he nets a backhand and rafa wraps up the game to move one away from a two-set lead .
better from murray , who finds his mark with a forehand return , but federer replies with a winner from inside the court . an outswinging first serve forces murray to go long , but a baseline error from the swiss gives murray hope . it 's not for long though as federer converts a backhand volley before murray finds the net with a forehand .
klizan is on the attack at the start of the game , sending down a pacy forehand before rushing into the net to volley . he tries another shot from the net later in the game but nadal reacts superbly to lob the ball past the slovakian , leaving him racing back to baseline , but he does n't get there in time . nadal finds his fifth ace of the match and seals the game when klizan fails to get his drop-shot attempt over the net .
another comfortable hold for cilic - this time to love - but you call andy murray flared jeans because he has made a huge comeback here !
there it is ! murray blocks back janowicz 's serve and the pole nets a forehand to gift his opponent the advantage .
verdasco has a problem with his shoes , so the game is slightly delayed . he resumes and holds to 15 .
fantastic stuff from murray . simply fantastic . a string of slice shots leave berdych stretching and the czech eventually hits wide . murray 's now a double break up .
you have to say that matosevic is holding his own in such illustrious company on and off court but federer is warming to this and some superb work at the net gets him to 15-30. however , the australian benefits from a miscued forehand to get back to 30-30 before seeing out the game .
another sensational forehand moves klizan 0-15 ahead , before a brilliant passing shot moves klizan 0-30 ahead . nadal moves onto the board with a brilliant forehand of his own , but 15-40 occurs when nadal slices into the air . nadal survives the first break point and then quickly the second when klizan fires into the air . the spaniard then nets to hand klizan another chance to break , but an ace from nadal leaves the score at deuce two . eventually nadal holds with a brilliant forehand .
excellent game from del potro , as he holds to love in just over 60 seconds .
he does n't let that slump get to him though , winning the next two points to get on the board in the fifth .
nadal moves to 0-15 , but he slips on the next point to allow nishikori to move level . three unreturnable serves from the japanese player gives him a little bit of momentum going into the next game , which he must win to remain in the set .
another solid service hold for djokovic , who looks in a solid rhythm now . if he continues like this on serve , it could be hard for wawrinka to break through .
serving to stay in the first set , simon delivers with a pummelling shot that has federer scampering on the wide-line . the frenchman makes the error with a wide shot , but moves well to find another point by cornering his opponent . federer almost hands him the game with a poor return that loops too far beyond and simon soon wins out when the 33-year-old fires another one just a fraction long .
tomic eats up his final challenge as he questions a call on the sideline to no avail . that error in judgement is used to full effect by berdych , who climbs ahead in the second set .
pretty casual stuff on serve proves enough for djokovic to earn his first hold to love . a pair of forehand 's slapped down the line were fairly impressive there from the top seed , who looks completely at home out on centre court .
a worthy effort at a cross-court winner sprays just wide klizan , allowing berdych off the hook as the first set stays on serve . i 'd just like to see the seventh seed show more variety by coming in to the net on crucial points like that , but he looks resistant to change and relies on a punishing array of shots at the baseline .
robredo is trudging from side to side with a look of resignation as wawrinka hits a couple of aces , but a double fault gives the spaniard hope . however , he blasts a return into the net and wawrinka is one away from a two-set lead .
muller is certainly not giving anything away on serve , as he fires some more booming deliveries down the court at the world number one . the top seed misses a series of returns , and challenges when a forehand is called wide , but hawkeye confirms that it was a fraction out , giving muller a hold to love .
finally some fight from cilic as he wraps up one of few holds following some improving service work . djokovic is only able to register the one point on this occasion , leaving his opponent to finish things off with a forehand winner that gets the whole crowd applauding . it is more of a sympathetic one than anything too mean .
falla moves to 5-2 thanks to another wayward wawrinka shot , but a falla mistake and a big forehand from wawrinka moves the score to 5-4. that 's brave again from falla , who serves-and-volleys for the umpteenth time to move to two set points , and he takes the first after wawrinka goes wide ! we are heading into a fourth set on the margaret court arena .
it 's a much simpler hold for federer who puts together four successive points . we are going into a tie-break !
djokovic opens with his second ace of the match before wawrinka fails to find the target with a couple of baselines efforts . a love hold is completed with a big serve out wide . just one returning point recorded so far in three games .
he then gets on top of a rally with almagro going long and wins the opening game after a 26-shot rally . very good start from ferrer .
it 's another error from break and raonic holds . he 's closing in on that match with murray .
that was a little more emphatic from wawrinka . he ends the game with successive aces to complete a love hold .
during the change of ends , djokovic got some treatment on his shoulders but it does n't appear to be anything too serious . gasquet reaches 30-30 , but djokovic tests out his shoulder with an emphatic smash before sealing the game when his opponent goes wide .
stepanek is really on the attack as he clearly thinks he can win this set . despite a couple of errors , he brings up a break point with slices volley , but djokovic survives a stumble to come into the net and return a drop shot on the next point to bring up deuce . stepanek ends up on the floor twice in another entertaining exchange but ca n't quite get his volley back in , although he does force the game back to deuce with a forehand moments later . however , a wide forehand followed by a slice into the net eventually allow djokovic to hold a compelling game .
a tense exchange early on allows federer to pull level when he charges forward and forces novak to clip wide . a tame backhand finds the net for federer and djokovic follows it up by forcing another error from the swiss player . the current champion falters with an error of his own , allowing federer to claim deuce as novak seemingly slips and sends an attack long . federer moves onto break point with a strong foray that forces a mistake , but concedes deuce as the ball gets stuck under his feet . more advancing play from federer forces another slip from novak and break point is reached again . federer drops once more when djokovic pulls out a memorable forehand and the serb this time takes a lead when roger pings beyond the baseline . djokovic holds his serve with a standout forehand winner down the line .
nieminen makes sure that he avoids a 6-0 in what looks certain to be the final set of the match as he serves well , finding the corners to force some poor returns from djokovic , while also throwing in an excellent forehand to the sideline to secure his first game of the third set .
after a series of deuces ebden wraps up the game with a classic serve and volley . the wide serve opened up the court for the volley and it 's entirely level now .
berdych gets himself on the board in this set . murray still holds the advantage though thanks to that break .
murray just is n't getting a look in the majority of federer 's service games . the swiss races to 40-0 with a volley and forehand winner before the game is sealed with a ace .
the start of game eight is delayed by bizarre goings on with the balls . nishikori believes that they are deflated but the umpire thinks otherwise . nishikori does n't let that distract him in moving to 30-15 but a well-struck backhand down the line takes cilic two points from the set . the japanese player holds on though , and he forces his opponent to serve for the first set .
djokovic makes a lively start , showing great movement as he rushes into the net to slice a backhand volley past his opponent . a wide forehand from sousa gives djokovic an immediate chance to restore his double break , and he does when sousa wildly blasts his backhand long .
not the simplest opening service game for murray but he fires an ace down the line to hold . he wants this one over with quickly .
it looks like federer has all be sealed his place in the last eight as he goes two breaks up in the final set . it looks like the disappointment of losing the last set has hit raonic hard , as his error-count is rising .
youzhny gets back into the swing of things by holding to 15 , closing out the game with a forehand winner that wrongfooted murray and found the sideline .
chardy holds to stay on serve in the third and pivotal set . but now , we 're going back over to rod laver for andy murray 's clash with ricardas berankis .
djokovic is on the attack again as he takes a 40-30 lead to give himself a chance for a double break . sousa 's sloppy backhand lets him down again as he tries to force the game to deuce , gifting djokovic the game . so far this has been pretty comfortable stuff for the second seed .
an ace down the middle gets murray off to a positive start but he ca n't follow it up after a backhand slice fails to get over the net . the next two points are shared , but a big first serve gets murray out of trouble . rola misses out with a backhand lob and that 's the game for the scot .
a routine hold brings the match level early in the second set . tomic failed to apply any pressure on his opponent 's serve after winning the opening game .
djokovic eases to a 40-0 lead as he tries to get on the board in this third set , but simon fights back , forcing a couple of mistakes from his opponent , but he ca n't take the game to deuce as he fires his forehand wide .
tsonga looks for an early break , attacking the federer serve , but the second seed is equal to it , and seals the game with a brilliant backhand volley .
federer continues his relentless attack on the net by easing to another love hold . he has already been to the net 23 times . surely the influence of new coach stefan edberg ?
however , nadal battles back with a serve and volley point and a clean forehand winner . then he takes the game with possibly his best winner of the match , that was just a couple of centimetres over the net and curled into court .
no real trouble for murray to hold there . will he pounce on lopez 's next service game ?
dimitrov wraps up the opening game relatively comfortably . djokovic returns his first two serves long , but gets a point back with a strong sliced backhand , but dimitrov wraps it up with a couple of solid forehands .
federer fights back from 30-15 down to hold serve . there have been longer rallies during the last couple of games , with tsonga so far getting the better of his opponent . the frenchman will now serve for the second set .
robredo wins the next two points to hold serve again , he 's just about keeping murray honest here .
the crowd on suzanne lenglen has been neutral for much of the match but it 's definitely pro ferrer now . there 's loud applause as the spaniard takes the first point but there are more worried murmurs as murray hits back to 15-30. the third seed ca n't take advantage though as ferrer plays some inspired tennis to get back on level terms .
djokovic holds to 15 with consummate ease . he has n't had to move out of second gear to win the first nine games inside 34 minutes . we can see why golubev has never won a match at wimbledon .
under pressure that was a terrific effort from darcis , who is not afraid to come in at the net and shorten his points on serve . nadal looks slightly taken aback by his opponent 's efforts as he loses the opening points of his next service game .
errrrm , no . it 's another quickfire game for the fed express , wrapping it up with a composed forehand pass up the line .
djokovic has n't found a good rhythm on serve in this set , missing his first serve on a couple of occasions to allow berdych to take a 30-15 lead in the game . however , the fifth seed catches the ball on the net , taking it wide to let djokovic back in the game . another miss from the serb takes the game to deuce , but berdych finds the net again to give djokovic his first hold of the second set .
djokovic moves 15-0 ahead when federer slips before hitting the net , before djokovic whips a forehand past his opponent for 30-0. djokovic then pulls out another ace for 40-0 , but federer moves onto the board with a passing forehand . djokovic then hits the net twice in quick succession for deuce . federer follows suit in the next point to hand djokovic advantage , but then fires long for deuce two . the pair exchange points once more , but eventually djokovic holds with a fine forehand .
a big game coming up for murray . he needs to generate some momentum , and after edging 30-0 ahead , he slices the ball down the line with tremendous accuracy . the game moves into a tie-break after mayer nets .
the first serve of rosol is working again and the czech holds to 15 in just over a minute . he needs to continue to be bold in the closing moments of this set or else nadal will capitalise .
more strong service , this time from novak , who opens another account with an ace . he then goes 40-0 with a backhand winner and a serve that federer sends high and wide of the lines . federer registers a point when djokovic ca n't find a way over the net , but the serb closes the game with a serve that roger returns past the baseline .
federer moves to 0-15 with a stunning return winner , and after losing the next two points , he swarms the net to force a mistake out of his opponent . djokovic comes through , though , after federer just misses with a backhand down the line . the swiss needs a reponse in this next game .
the 22nd seeded spaniard has started well here and that left arm is full of power . goffin is struggling against the serve and verdasco needs just one more to take the opening set .
djokovic follows up with an easy hold of his own . so far the set is being played at a canter , with little challenge to either 's serve . that will probably change here ..
another ace from federer moves the swiss 15-0 ahead , before robredo nets for 30-0. federer comes to the net once more to move 40-0 ahead and secures the hold when robredo nets once more .
djokovic battles hard to try to set up a chance for him to get a break on the board , but stepanek hits a big serve before getting the better of the world number in an exchange of shots at the net . stepanek has made some stunning volleys so far in this set .
despite what is riding on this game , wawrinka looks unnerved as he rattles down another ace for 30-0 before chasing down a couple of well-struck shots from djokovic before converting a smash . he brings up three set points , and the first is taken with a first serve out wide . i told you to get your popcorn ...
paire stands up to federer in a rally and is rewarded with a closely fought service game win . he 's pleased with that one and shouts something in french . it was n't `` oui '' so i 'm none the wiser .
federer holds with a crashing serve out-wide that stakhovsky can only get the edge of his racket to . the seven-time champ is hanging on !
simple stuff for almagro as the 11th seed holds to love .
centre court erupts as murray blasts back verdasco 's second serve and the spaniard ca n't deal with it . can he consolidate this break and serve out the remainder of the set . he could n't in the second , remember .
nadal is still having difficulties with his first serve , which is making it difficult for him to close out his games at the moment . he 's more confident going for it on second serve early in the game , setting up a 40-15 lead . however , he 's more cautious while trying to clinch the game , giving almagro the chance to come in from the baseline as rifle a couple of winners past the defending champion to bring up deuce . while his serve is still lacking , nadal 's forehand has been working well , and he uses that to see out the game . almagro will now have to serve to stay in the set .
ferrer makes two double faults on his way to deuce , but a deep forehand from the spaniard makes it difficult for dolgopolov , and he hits the ball into the net . ferrer wraps up the game with a long rally , which ends when the ukrainian slices his forehand well long .
superb tennis all round here ! brilliant service from lopez , who hits two ferocious aces to go 30-0 up , but djokovic recovers to take a point . djokovic levels as lopez hits a drop shot out , before the serb hits a terrific forehand beyond lopez . djokovic breaks after his opponent hits the net with a return . the favourite is looking very good already .
nadal holds to 15. dimitrov will now serve for the first set . how will he cope with the pressure ?
gasquet begins the fourth with a hold to love . he needed that after wilting at the back end of that third set .
gasquet could n't have asked for a much better start than that . four points played , four points won , including a smash and forehand winner . the frenchman looks in confident mood .
haas saves the first two but ca n't bring it back to deuce as djokovic finds the corner and the german ca n't curl it into play .
unchallenged progress for roger back on his serve at 30-0 , before djokovic responds by forcing the error . another mistake on the backhand sets up the game in federer 's favour , but he concedes two points for deuce . novak moves ahead with the cheekiest of chips on the drop and he then breaks after federer scoops long .
another immense hold from the scot . he is really is hanging on by the skin of his teeth here ! verdasco had another break point but it was saved by a gutsy ace - his 11th of the contest . can murray now worry the spaniard on his serve ?
good start to the game for djokovic as his forehand forces nadal to fire long , before a devastating ace moves the serbian into a 30-0 lead . nadal responds to move onto the board moments later , but another wonderful forehand from djokovic sets up two game points . the serbian does indeed secure the hold as nadal nets from just inside the baseline .
tsonga is doing an excellent job of keeping his nose in front , without playing sparkling tennis . more solid . it 's quite unlike him , but he 'll be serving for the set , providing he does n't break gasquet in the next game to take it regardless .
rosol holds to 15 to ensure that nadal is n't going to run away with the match . the problem lies in nadal 's service games because the spaniard just does n't like letting his advantage slip .
murray makes some big returns to take the came to deuce as he continues to look for his first break of the set . however , it 's goffin who claims advantage with a good shot the the baseline . murray takes it back to deuce when he picks out the sideline with a forehand shot of his own on the next point , but back-to-back efforts into the net allow goffin to keep his serve in tact .
a ninth ace gets wawrinka on his way before he just about makes a backhand winner when it clips the line . nishikori is n't amused . a 10th ace takes the swiss to 40-15 before an 11th gets him to within one of a two-set lead .
big hold for harrison ! the american saves break point as nadal 's forehand drifts wide . he then produces two huge aces to close the game out .
we finally have a lengthy exchange from the baseline and it 's nishikori who comes through it with the point . cilic gets back in the game at 30-15 but the wind forces the croatian to miscue a return , and there 's nothing that he can do when nishikori unwinds on a forehand .
haas takes an early mini-break with a fine backhand , but he then spoils that hard work with a forehand error . two big serves from both players make it 2-2 , before a djokovic forehand clips the top of the net and haas regains the mini-break . the intensity of the rallies have increased , but it is haas who is now coming out on top , and he has the 4-2 advantage at the change of ends .
federer makes his service game look easy , taking a 5-2 lead in the deciding set , and he 's just one game away from a semi-final against andy murray
nadal is looking far from his consistent best on serve as he follows up a smash with an unforced wide backhand , before saving a break point with an ace . at deuce , nadal hits a stunning forehand , but a well-placed backhand from almagro on the next point forces nadal to fire long . almagro wants to give himself another chance to break the sixth seed , attempting a backhand volley , but he can only smash it into the net , allowing nadal to clinch the game on the next point when his opponent fires long . nadal has looked comfortable in very few of his service games so far , but he 's still yet to be broken .
nadal holds to 15 .
goffin makes the breakthrough to serve for the set !
swift game from stakhovsky and the crowd inside centre produce a few whoops as murray 's result is shown on the screen .
the pole is now in full control of the third set .
nadal moves to within a game of the third set by holding to 15 with a forehand winner . kukushkin has n't troubled the spaniard 's serve all afternoon and recently has lost control on his own serve . in the third seet , he 's won less than half of the points when he 's got his first serve in .
both players come out firing after the short delay , and it 's robredo who has reacted better , striking an ace and a forehand winner for a 40-15 advantage . gasquet powers a return back at robredo , but the spaniard seals the game with a sparkling backhand cross-court winner from about six yards behind the baseline . a definite contender for shot of the day .
the first point goes the way of djokovic as federer hits a forehand into the net , before the swiss fires long for 30-0. federer is on the board in the next point , however , after producing a wonderful volley at the net . federer then fires long to hand djokovic 40-15 , before the serb holds with a fine backhand .
it 's a comfortable hold in the end for the world number two and so far in the set every game has gone with serve . this is a really good clash currently .
aggressive play by federer sees him move to the net , but his forehand effort goes out . the swiss recovers with a neat backhand block that goes beyond the reach of gasquet , before he moves into the lead with an error from the frenchman . federer moves to 40-15 up after gasquet hits a forehand return beyond the baseline of his opponent , but federer can not break at the first attempt . an error from the world number two then levels the scores - so frustrating for federer ! gasquet hits a powerful serve that federer can not control , before doing the same to wrap the game up . after two break points , there 's nothing to show for federer - surely gasquet can take some confidence from this ?
impressive fighting spirit from the home favourite in that game , showing nice touch at the net to keep the second set on serve .
murray is encouraged when he scores with a return and although berdych takes the next point , the czech nets to give murray 15-30. it 's a minor chance but he 'll take it . that chance improves when a flat forehand from murray brings the error from berdych and it 's two break-back points . murray wastes an opportunity on the first , blazing a backhand long on the baseline , but he breaks through on the second with some amazing defence ! we are back on serve .
murray is now one game away from going out of wimbledon as verdasco rockets down a serve at 40-15 that murray frames high into the sky and out .
magnificent net play from the underdog and we 're into a tie-break .
murray breaks ! with a stunning cross-court backhand .
djokovic looks like he is trying to conserve energy for sets four and five . nadal holds to love and leads 5-0 in the third .
the polish fans chant : `` jerrrzy , jerrrzy '' as their man secures the crucial break in the fifth and decisive set .
another good serve and volley saves the first of two break points and the second disappears thanks to his presence at the front of the court , with youzhny hitting the net . a good hold after it looked as though youzhny had it wrapped up .
it 's a fairly straight forward service game for ferrer , as dolgopolov makes some errors while trying to get his returns in . ferrer had looked quite frustrated at the start of this set , but he seems to have regained his composure .
wonderful way to end the game from tsonga as he reaches down to pick up gulbis 's win-or-bust return and curl it into the open court .
monfils dropped one point that time on his way to a hold of serve . lu is getting nowhere near a break . this one is heading for a tie-break .
another double from the pole and that 's the perfect way to respond to losing the first set by murray .
berdych 's serve is such a powerful weapon for him all evening and he continues in the same vain as he starts with a service winner . nadal battles back to 30-30 , but the 29-year-old raises the level of his game against with a forehand down the line and another winner on serve . it has been quite the performance from the czech .
it 's all or nothing as far as tsonga is concerned right now , and the chances that he is taking with his shots from the baseline are paying off . he allows djokovic back into the game at 40-30 , but a body serve helps him convert the second game point .
ferrer will be cursing himself for throwing away those two break points as tipsarevic holds with a neat sliced drop shot .
djokovic opens up a 30-15 advantage but wawrinka gets back on level terms with a routine forehand winner into the corner . a forehand from djokovic then clips the net to gift a break point to the swiss but it 's saved when the serbian 's finds some impeccable length off the ground . wawrinka gets another chance but again , he goes long from baseline before djokovic comes through with the hold . wawrinka ca n't let chances like that go begging against the best player in the world .
malisse ensure that his early break counts for something by holding on to his serve .
janowicz produces the coolest of drop shots at 40-0 to wrap up the game and put the pressure back on muzza .
again it is strong serving from klizan , who breezes into a 30-0 lead when nadal twice nets in quick succession . a quick flick of the wrist allows nadal to move onto the board , but a fine backhand from klizan leaves the score at 40-15. an ace secures the hold .
the world number 47 is giving as good as he is getting thus far against cilic . a superb passing shot as cilic comes to the net moves him to 40-0 and he sees it out .
it 's another close one and another show of aggressive hitting from monfils , but lu is able to hold once more . i 'd put my mortgage on another tie-break here .
that was a gruelling game but petzschner saves a couple of break points to hold . almagro again not looking to pleased with himself . i would n't want to get on the wrong side of him . he looks like he might bite you .
dominant tennis from djokovic . he runs cilic side to side and , despite the croatian 's best efforts , he is powerless to resist . novak pulls out some more from the top drawer to move into a 40-0 lead , and he wraps up the love game to move one away from the semi-finals .
berdych has to stretch to reach the ball and emerges rubbing his back in pain . djokovic hits another ace to seal the game , and needs just one more to secure his place in the last four .
a good response from murray who takes a comfortable service game . just one more game needed now for the brit , haase is serving to stay in the match .
federer just misses with a backhand return , before doing the same off his forehand side . however , nadal throws in a mistake of his own , and it 's 30-15. the spaniard then loops a forehand long , and out of nowhere , federer is two away from the set . the swiss senses his chance , but he goes for too much on a forehand ! nadal then swings an ace out wide , and we are back level .
wawrinka has been boosted by that hold and djokovic 's level has dropped . the swiss brings up three break points after a smash and a couple of mistakes from his opponent , and after a drop volley goes wide , wawrinka has the break to love .
that might have perked him up though ! isner double faults at 15-40 to give malisse the break at the start of the third set .
a well-timed smash and a fantastic backhand down the line and all of a sudden , murray has two break points ! neither of these can hold their serve at the moment . a lengthy rally follows , with djokovic going long after an exchange of backhands and once again we 're back on serve . there 's more bad news for djokovic as well because he 's called the trainer to attend to a thumb injury , although it looks like he will continue .
at 15-30 down , murray finds the net from the baseline , handing djokovic two break points and the chance to level up proceedings . the first is saved , but the second , murray once again sees his forehand stroke clatter into the net and bounce down on his side of the court . just when it looks as though djokovic is on the ropes , he responds . that 's the mark of a true champion .
dp is equally as impressive with the ball in hand . it already looks like it will take something special to claim a break in this set .
muller mixes up his shots from the baseline , and he forces an error at the net from djokovic to edge ahead , but the top seed makes amends with a stunning overhead smash on the next point . a wide backhand from the world number 42 leaves djokovic just a point from sealing the game , which his does with another smash . that 's the first time muller has really looked like he could test the djokovic serve , but the world number one upped his game .
wow ! wonderful backhand up the line from novak leaves everyone speechless . federer 's forehand fails at 30-0 , before the swiss send a long shoot past the baseline . djokovic ca n't quite get his return over the net at close range for 40-15 , and concedes further with another net shot to make it 40-30. djokovic steals it with a resounding ace .
early on this match is shaping up to be fought out in a grueling fashion at the baseline . federer is up and running after using an effective first serve to close out a routine hold , much to the relief of the second seed .
rafa holds to 30. kokkinakis will now serve with new balls to stay in the second set .
i should probably mention the strength of the wind at roland garros . it 's not hindering the quality of this match but it 's almost brought a federer return to a standstill . wawrinka holds to 15 and he 's now one game away from the first set .
you 're a set away from winning the us open . how do you open up your next service game ? with three aces . stunning stuff . however , the game is n't over and three mistakes from cilic , including a double fault , allows nishikori to get back to deuce . all of a sudden , the pressure is on , but cilic catches the line several times during the longest rally of the match to earn advantage before he eventually comes through to edge ahead .
a look of pure focus from djokovic as he takes the set with another ace . he really stepped up his serve in that game just as wawrinka was battling back against him . the swiss player will serve first in the new set for the first time in the match . what a set this could be .
murray needs to up his intensity now . he has been far from his best , but he is a set to the good . he lets mayer in at 15-15 , but three strong points help him to the first game of the second set .
the worst possible start to the third set for davydenko , who is played off the court in his opening service game . the russian has rarely looked threatening against the federer serve , so that may well be the match wrapped up for the swiss player .
after murray brings up three game points with a one-two off his serve , there are signs that sousa has accepted his fate . he remains in the game due to a bit of showmanship from murray , but a big first serve gets the job done and the third seed is one game away from the last 32 .
haas takes the first point of the game , but it does n't take long for djokovic to regain control , concluding the game with back-to-back aces . there have been very few rallies so far , with many of the points being dictated off the first serve .
lacko gets himself on the board in the third set at the fourth time of asking . he now has 10 games , which is more than a lot of players take off djokovic .
nadal plays a superb backhand down the line before wrong-footing ferrer with another backhand from behind the baseline to give himself a chance to get a break early in the second set . ferrer defends well , but he ca n't match his opponent , as nadal fires a superb forehand to the back corner of the court to clinch the break .
once again , nadal fails to let brands take a single point against his serve . the spin that the reigning champion places on the ball is catching brands out , as he struggles to get his returns in .
murray looks tuned in now , catching the line with a first serve before reaching 30-0 with a flat forehand into the corner . as i say that , he throws in a double fault . this game is n't over . he replies with a fantastic smash on the back foot to earn two set points , and the first is taken when a return is sent into the net .
tsonga does not start too well given that he comes up with an opening double fault . the rest of the game is pretty special , though , as the frenchman thrashes his way past cilic with almost unplayable forehands .
as predicted , nishikori remains eager to play his shots , and after losing the opener , he fights back with three points , keeping nadal on the run , and he breaks the sequences of six games against him , much to the delight of the crowd .
murray saves us from another ridiculously long game with two dominant points from the back of the court . he is hanging in there , but i have no idea how .
tsonga 's serve is too good for federer , and once again the second seed fails to take a point against him . the world number eight uses both placement and power to get the better of his opponent , making it too hard to return his serve .
djokovic looks to wrap up the set while goffin is smarting from being unable to consolidate his break and earns three set points . the first is saved with a thumping return winner on first serve , before djokovic nets to wipe out the second . another big return is followed with a thunderous backhand winner for deuce ! superb play ! goffin saves the fourth set point with yet another booming return to set up the winner . however , at the fifth time of asking djokovic takes the set for a 2-0 lead .
there 's a big winner from delpo . he unleashes a forehand up the line to move to 40-15 and then follows that up with an unreturnable serve to level up the set .
does djokovic have somewhere that he needs to be ? more aggression from the baseline sees him take the first point , before an ace and an unreturned first serve bring up three set points . tsonga saves the first two , but a blistering ace out wide seals the first set for djokovic in 25 minutes .
the aussie is not quite finished on court one , slamming a 17th ace down the middle to get a hold he desperately needed . all about minimising mistakes now for the 20-year-old as he looks for a route back from a break down in the fourth set .
he does avoid the bagel - quite comfortably by holding to 15 .
brilliant from nadal once more as the spaniard kisses the baseline with a forehand to move 15-0 ahead , but he then fires long to leave the score at 15-15. klizan then nets twice in quick succession to leave nadal 40-15 ahead , before the spaniard holds with a a fine volley .
that is pretty much the perfect response from murray , who shows a mixture of good footwork and defensive strokes on his way to winning the second set 's opening game . djokovic even seemed to lose his balance and took a tumble at 40-15 , but he 's up . can murray secure a break at the first time of asking ?
klizan shows impressive pace and determination to earn three break points against nadal 's serve . he wraps up the game with a brilliant cross-court forehand , as he extends this second-round clash for at least another game .
rafa regroups to secure a hold he desperately needed , giving him a platform to build on early in this second set .
at 30-30 , kyrgios tries too hard to bring up a break point , firing his forehand well long , but he does force the game to deuce when he slices his backhand down the sideline , but nadal gets advantage with an ace before a long forehand from kyrgios hands the world number one the game .
they just keep coming through battles on serve . ferrer has saved more than his fair share of break points in what is almost the opposite of the first set .
three serves find their mark and three returns do n't . federer eases to 40-0 before wawrinka allows him the love game by sending a forehand wide .
it goes to deuce and nishikori takes it . that 's only his fifth game of the match so far , but it keeps him in touch .
nadal holds to 15. the spaniard failed to serve out for the match at the end of the fourth set , but he is just one game away from victory once again .
federer breaks ! stunning response from the first seed , who breaks to love .
brands teams his big serve with a range of brilliant forehands , but he lets a 40-15 lead slip to bring up deuce , but he manages to bring up the advantage and seal the game with a perfectly placed drop shot .
djokovic holds with the most beautiful of lobs . things that were landing in for murray earlier in this set are now going wide . vice-versa where djokovic is concerned . murray must hold here if he is to win this second set .
davydenko saves a break point . it looks like federer may have eased off a little , knowing that one break will be enough to progress as long as he continues to be comfortable on his own serve .
blake senses an opportunity at 30-30 but raonic hangs in there to hold .
federer begins a must-win game with a shot into the net but he responds by stretching just enough to get to a volley at the net . the pressure is all on federer but a quite ridiculous drop shot and a first serve out wide get him to two game points before a backhand volley takes us into a tie-break .
djokovic finishes off an easy service game with a delightful drop volley that almost stops dead . no pressure on his serve any more whatsoever .
djokovic was furious after dropping serve , but he calmly sends down back-to-back aces to suggest that he is fully tuned in . however , wawrinka 's shots off the ground are beginning to hurt djokovic but he gets to 40-15 after the swiss just misses the baseline . the game is sealed when wawrinka hooks a forehand wide and when he returns , he will be serving to stay in the first set .
the serb then wraps up his serve , but it was the first one in which he was troubled . istomin must hold here or he goes a set down . i fancy djokovic to come out flying in this game .
djokovic starts strongly with a serve out wide but murray lands a stunning forehand to make djokovic go long . the serb responds with a first serve down the middle but murray fires straight back , making his opponent float the ball over the baseline . huge point coming up . it 's set point to murray after he outlasts djokovic from the back of the court . wow . can he level it up ? he ca n't . he mistimes a lob and djokovic converts an easy smash . the number one seed moves to game point after a well thought-out point but murray hangs in with superb tennis from the back of the court . djokovic digs deep though , and it 's his game . we are into another tie-break .
small fright for djokovic as wawrinka makes it 40-30 , but he sees out the game to hold the opener for the third set running .
huge hold for janowicz there as murray again fails to return a second serve at advantage . gritty stuff from the 22-year-old .
after conceding the first point , murray produces some incredible defensive work but lets himself down with a stray forehand . he takes the next point , but another unforced error off the ground allows dimitrov some breathing space at 40-15 , and the game is taken with a drive volley .
brilliant from djokovic as the serbian whips a forehand past federer to move 0-15 ahead , but djokovic hits one long in the next point to leave the score level at 15-15. novak then drops another one just wide to hand federer 30-15 , but the swiss double-faults for 30-30. federer hits the net in the next point to hand djokovic match point , but responds with another ace for deuce . federer hits another ace to move onto advantage , but then hits the net for deuce two . another stunning ace - followed by a forehand - allows federer to regain the advantage and he holds when djokovic nets .
robredo opens up a 30-0 lead , but a wayward forehand finds the tramlines . the spaniard then steps in to force gasquet on the defensive , and he takes the game with ease . the next 15 minutes could be tense though ...
lu forces murray to cover a lot of ground as he controls the rally from the back of court before wrong-footing the briton with a volley . after a couple of good forehands , he finishes the game with his first ace of the match .
and the italian needs just one of them as he sends a forehand winner beyond the reach of roddick . perfect response from fognini . we 're back on serve .
djokovic shows some resistance on the murray second serve and makes it 40-30 with a smash , but a big serve from murray gets him off the mark in the set . still no break of serve in well over two hours of play .
straight into the action where isner appears to be running out of time in the breaker , trailing as he does 5-3 .
nadal , at 30-15 down , winds up that forearm to level the game . then there 's a strong serve from monfils to move to game point , before setting it up brilliantly and finishing with a forehand down the line . good play and a fairly comfortable service game too .
lu is firmly in control now and monfils looks less and less mobile by the game . it 's a hold to love and the last two shots monfils did n't even move for it .
sousa is being forced to scramble all over the philippe chatrier court just to stay in this set and he produces a bit of magic to pass murray with a cross-court backhand . he ca n't prevent a second break though , and murray forces the error at the net to move to within one game of the set .
ooh ! bullet of a backhand from gasquet this time has the frenchman 30-0 , before another mistake from stan moves things to 40-0. wawrinka hangs on in there and show good strength with a long return , but ca n't follow it up as gasquet whips across the court to take the encounter . wawrinka serving to stay in the game .
precision baseline play sees federer take charge of the first set and claim a break without conceding a point . benneteau simply had no answer to the pace and intensity of his opponent 's backhand and now looks in deep trouble , favouring the left leg as he switches ends .
it 's so tight in this fourth set ! djokovic takes the lead with a brilliant volley from the net , before wrong-footing his opponent with a forehand pass shot down the line . lopez takes a point back , but the serb moves a step closer to taking the game with a superb backhand shot across the court . a lopez error gives djokovic the game . easily djokovic 's best service game for some time .
the youngster makes a confident start , winning the match 's opening two points before holding to 30 .
baghdatis hangs on against some aggressive play from ferrer , forcing the spaniard to have to try to serve out the match .
muller is still looking as determined as ever during his own service games , coming inside the baseline for a volley before hitting a couple of forehand winners past the top seed to start the third set with a comfortable hold .
on the second point , nishikori hits a 77mph first serve before responding with a 121mph ace . tennis is a weird sport ! a clever backhand that just drops over the net keep wawrinka in the game before a nishikori double fault helps him to deuce . the swiss then catches nishikori coming in and it 's break point , but out of nowhere , the japanese fires down a second-serve ace ! a fifth ace from the 25-year-old helps find the hold .
there 's a feeling that djokovic needs to re-engage mentally in this match or else nadal could run away with this . the serbian misses out on getting to 15-30 , but after nadal nets on the next point , we are at 30-30. djokovic should have a break point but he misses the tramline by millimetres and nadal takes advantage to take the game .
gritty hold that from murray . he levels the opener once more as verdasco runs around his backhand but ca n't curl the forehand into play . big game now for the spaniard .
the seventh seed chops a precise ace down the line to help keep this first set firmly on serve . berdych has shown aggression to chase short shots down in the early going , getting his reward with a second hold .
strong stuff under pressure from kubot , with janowicz stubbornly refusing to try the lob and getting caught in the process . the challenge for kubot now in this third set is to finally take a break point , with six chances spurned so far today .
murray races into a 30-0 lead , but djokovic then pounces on his well-documented second serve to level up at 30 apiece . deuce follows , but credit to murray , who then serves an ace to bring up an advantage , with djokovic then firing into the net . high quality stuff from both players , even at this early stage .
federer attempts to pile the pressure on his compatriot at the start of the game , but wawrinka comes through with flying colours to hold to 15 .
nadal opens the game with an ace , but kyrgios gets his first point against the spaniard 's serve when the second seed makes a double fault . however , the world number one wins the game with a two-handed backhand down the line .
the first two points are shared before djokovic flicks the most delightful volley over the net for 30-15. a big first serve out wide helps him reach two game points , but gasquet stays alive with a venomous forehand winner that leaves djokovic helpless . however , the world number one powers a backhand winner to hold .
wow ! blink and you 'll miss it . lopez is buzzing now after that hold . pressure now firmly on murray 's shoulders .
if rosol can keep this up , he wins . simple . a forehand down the line and two more aces see him secure another hold to love .
murray desperately needs a hold here to stop the rot , and he starts positively enough after a djokovic error and a decent first serve . he then lands a seventh ace before a love hold is registered when djokovic goes long . he does n't look too perturbed though .
wawrinka makes a lot of ground up to reach the ball at the net , but he ca n't get it over to secure a 0-30 lead . that effort appears to knock the stuffing out of him a little , and he makes three errors in a row to concede the game .
ferrer whips a pacy forehand past his opponent , causing bautista agut to trip at the net . the fourth seed players some punchy shots from the back of the court to round off a comfortable hold of serve .
evans has started extremely well , and looks comfortable on court with the number 11 seed . he loses the game to 15 , but he appears to have the game to test nishikori .
slack effort from the swiss sees federer chip into the net with a sloppy shot and he comes up short again by firing wide when trying to smash at the net after an impressive rally . simon turns in a double fault on his own serve and federer moves back level . simon crashes through another serve to setup the game , which he concludes with another strong service that federer sends beyond the baseline .
wawrinka holds a 30-0 lead when gasquet pings a long one high and wide . a standout ace then sets stan further in front . wawrinka fumbles at the net , but is able to take the game at the second time of asking with another strong forehand across the court that wrong-foots his opponent .
federer regains his composure and holds to deuce .
when you are taking control of your own service games , it 's give you a chance to attack your opponent 's serve and that 's exactly what djokovic has done here . a mixture of brilliance from djokovic and a couple of wayward shots from wawrinka give the world number one the first break of serve in this final .
nadal has found a rhythm on his first serve and rosol 's only joy is coming from ambitious attempts at a return . he middles a return to get back to 40-15 , but nadal takes the game with a drop volley at the net .
berdych holds to love . the czech is in total control right now .
nadal throws in a double fault to give dimitrov a glimmer of hope at 40-30 , but that hope is quickly extinguished as rafa holds to 30 .
the 10th seed finishes with an ace , and is now one game away from a first win over ferrer and a first semi-final appearance .
the serbian slams the ball into the net and ferrer has another solid hold . this one has failed to light up ashe so far , i must admit , but it 's very early days .
and after all of that , berdych battles back to hold ! murray now serving to open up a three-game margin again .
a brilliant opening rally from murray catches federer out , before the second seed misses a backhand from the baseline . federer gets back in to the game with one of his fastest serves of the match , followed by a brilliant volley . another lengthy rally ends when federer fires his forehand wide , giving murray break point , but a shot from the brit goes well wide to bring up deuce . federer ups the power on his serve to force his way to a hold .
simon turns to power to hold his serve . he 's still moving awkwardly , so uses a series of pacy serves to force mistakes from murray on the return . it keeps the frenchman in the set .
baghdatis fights back from 40-15 down to take the game to deuce , but ferrer sees the game out with a brilliant cross-court backhand , and is just one game away from a two-set lead .
there are signs that the tide has completely turned in this match . nadal lets fly with two huge forehands to get to 40-0 and djokovic looks bewildered . the game is won with an ace and philippe-chatrier are beginning to see a masterclass from the 'king of clay ' .
getting us back into the action , federer stomps towards the net to set up an opening point on the rush . federer almost comes up good again with a crash across the court , only to be called out with novak looking well short at the net . the serbian is undone again at the middle when roger scoops a delightful chip over his head . novak comes back level with a vital ace , and soon takes the advantage with a strong passing shot . djokovic takes the game with federer conceding the error on the forehand .
wawrinka concedes the mini-break for the second time in the tie-break when he flashes a forehand long of the baseline , and federer extends his lead with a super volley at the net . it 's three set points for the former world number when wawrinka nets , but wawrinka hangs in there with a forehand winner . a second set point is wasted when federer sends a volley wide , but the second set is won when he serves-and-volleys behind a second serve .
what an unbelievable shot from nadal ! wawrinka plays an unreal volley which would take the game to deuce and he thinks he has done it . however , the champion shows incredible athleticism , determination and skill to not only reach the ball , but guide it across the court with an outstanding backhand to win the game . sheer brilliance from nadal , he leads this set 2-0 .
raonic makes a positive start , making federer work hard to hold his serve . a few more games like that will put pressure on the world number two .
murray had to dig deep there but he recovers to hold with a swerving ace down the middle . chardy was expecting it wide and got himself way out of position . one game now for murray to take the opener .
federer returns with a blistering forehand ( pun intended ) , but nadal attempts to show that the niggle wo n't bother him with a supreme backhand winner from the corner of the court . federer has two game points , and he somehow seals it on the first with a miraculous volley at the net , but there had to be a bit of frame in there somewhere .
davydenko holds in a fairly straight-forward game . he 'll need to force his first break point of the match if he wants the next game not to be his last in the tournament .
djokovic eases into a 30-0 lead , but federer halves the deficit with a crushing backhand down the line . the world number one seals the hold to 15 with his first ace of the night . that arm is still firing on all cylinders .
ferrer may not have been chasing against the baghdatis serve , but he 's still mighty during his own service game . he quickly takes a 40-0 lead before turning to his backhand to beat the cypriot . ferrer now needs just one game to move in to the fourth round .
this time he converts as haase fires just long with his approach . murray will be over the moon to have come through that set , but it was far from convincing by the two-time grand slam champion .
quickly followed by a comfortable one of his own from novak . so far in this set neither player has given much away on serve , but something will probably give at some point . wawrinka 's level does just seem to have dropped in the last few minutes .
and then a net cord sends the ball wide and benneteau has the break ! that was such a bad game from the serbian 's perspective .
djokovic looks at ease with his game at the start of this match , but a poor volley gives gasquet 30-30. however , an outswinging serve out wide gives him his first ace of the contest before the frenchman responds with a super passing shot . an unforced mistake from the world number one allows gasquet a break point , and although it 's saved by djokovic , the 21st seed gets another chance and takes it with an excellent backhand winner .
djokovic opens the game with the first ace of the match before coming inside the baseline again to hit a superb overhead forehand smash . another ace quickly brings up 40-0 for the top seed , but nieminen keeps himself in the game with a couple of solid returns , forcing errors from the serb . as djokovic continues to experiment with his shots , nieminen manages to get the game back to deuce , but a couple of well-executed backhands wrap it up for djokovic .
nodjo matches delpo in holding to love , finishing off the game with the simplest of smashes . he 's yet to offer the argentinian a single break point .
djokovic falls 0-15 behind , but his focus seemingly returns to go 40-15 up . murray then causes him some jitters as he sends a fantastic cross-court winner back beyond the serb to make it 40-30. djokovic will not be broken this time , though , as he wins through with a forehand winner . the trainer is back out for djokovic , but he 's now back on the court . pressure on murray , who is serving to stay in the set .
four straight points after that double fault as tsonga wraps up the game with an ace out-wide .
an ace and a well-worked forehand winner give almagro an easy service game to consolidate his break . it 's not looking good for ferrer right now .
wawrinka smashes the ball at federer at the net , but the more experience competitor of the two remains composed to hold to 15 with an ace out wide .
it 's a smooth start for ferrer , as his first two serves are not returned , before dolgopolov plays a careless attempt at a drop shot into the net . the ukrainian keeps himself in the game with a superb cross court forehand , but a long forehand on the next point hands the fourth seed the opening game .
the match is threatening to get away from kohlschreiber when he falls 30-0 behind , but three terrific points bring up a break point , despite the best efforts from his opponent . the german gets into the rally , but he sends a backhand wide , and he is now 1 out of 7 for break point opportunities . he achieves an eighth a point later , but a poor bounce contributes to him missing another , and he nets twice more to concede the game .
federer looks efficient as ever off his first serve and he quickly reels off three points to get to 40-0. an unforced error keeps matosevic in the game but he concedes the game with a slice that goes long .
massive hold from murray , particularly when you consider he was serving into wind . it 's now berdych 's turn to deal with the conditions . murray just a game away from the final .
set tsonga ! well , well , well . what is federer made of ? he 'll need to be back to his vintage era if he 's to overturn this . it could be a very early exit for the second seed .
some good play by harrison , but a superb cross-court volley gives the serbian break point , before the american sends a forehand shot wide .
the german wins the next two to hold serve . djokovic falls on his bottom on the last point but he 's ok .
federer attempts an early serve and volley , but tsonga sees it and guides his return at the feet of the swiss , whose subsequent volley goes wide . tsonga moves 30-40 ahead to get an early break point , but some accurate hitting from federer forces the error from the frenchman . tsonga tries some net play this time and he too gets the ball fired back at him and there 's nothing he can do with the return . the swiss survives the scare and holds .
nishikori must hold here or else cilic could run away with the match . after the game gets to 30-30 , nishikori earns game point but he ca n't convert as he nets a backhand . however , he records his first ace of the match to bring up advantage before taking the game thanks to a cilic mistake .
federer plays some stylish shots as he wraps up another service game without lacko getting on the scoreboard . the swiss uses a mix of volleys and a flawless drop shot to leave himself one game from the second round .
tie-break ! murray holds to 15 and we 'll have a tie-break to decide the second set .
benneteau strikes right back .
good response from djokovic in his third service game as he quickly moves 30-0 ahead with a couple of thunderous forehands forcing nadal to hit the net . an ace sends the world number one 40-0 ahead , but a double fault allows nadal to move onto the board . another wonderful serve , however , secures the hold for the serbian .
now then . an inspired return from robredo moves the door slightly ajar at 15-30. can he capitalise ? the answer is no . gasquet goes back on the attack , and robredo has no answer . he must now serve to stay in the fourth set .
it 's time for djokovic to step it up again . at 40-15 he pulls of two excellent shots , the second a forehand winner down the line , to level at deuce . he goes cross-court with a backhand before sealing the break at the first time of asking .
not so good when receiving is he ? malisse 's serve is decent enough but on many occasions , such as the last point in that game , isner is presented with an easy groundstroke but goes for too much .
that 's huge from dimitrov , who drills down a massive ace , but a positive point from murray sees him get back to 4-4 with a smash . dimitrov strikes through with a backhand passing shot and he has two points on serve for the set and a commanding lead . two sets points are created by dimitrov after he ghosts into court to put away a drop volley , and the set is the bulgarian 's after forcing a mistake out of murray . it 's a long way back for murray now .
added pressure now for wawrinka , every time he serves it will be to stay in the match . he has stayed calm and composed up to this point , how will he fare at crunch time ?
what a shocker from muzza ! he did so well to take control of the point but then missed a volley with half of the court to aim at .
it has to be said that gasquet has looked more ropey behind his serve since the restart . robredo earns 0-30 , and although he gets back to 30-30 , robredo catches the line with a forehand before sealing his first break of the match when gasquet nets . robredo will serve for the second set .
well there 's no chance of a break point for nadal in that game as kyrgios continues to place his serves superbly , including notching up another ace in a comfortable service game .
some great defensive shots against the ferrer serve help djokovic to deuce . the world number one gets a break point when the spaniard tries to come in to the net for a volley but misses the shot . he seals the game on the next point to take a two-break lead , and will serve for the set in the next game .
perhaps this is n't the foregone conclusion it was looking ! good movement from lacko on the baseline sees djokovic try to take the initiative but hit the net with a backhand . he 's back to looking rusty , the serb , and this opening set is now very interesting .
it was looking like another comfortable djokovic service game , but mathieu battled back to deuce . however , the serb stepped up a gear to take another game in this set . he 's cruising but still has a lot more in him .
well it 's another tight game , but stepanek just about does enough to avoid giving away an early break . at deuce , stepanek fires an ace past his opponent before djokovic finds the net on the next point .
wonderful from djokovic in the opening point as he comes to the net before placing a volley past nadal , before the serbian hits a drop shot to move 30-0 ahead on serve . nadal responds moments later to move onto the board , before a wild one from djokovic leaves the scores at 30-30. djokovic again fires wide moments later to hand a break point to nadal , who takes the opportunity to move within one game of the title .
after the opening two points are shared , the crowd are on their feet after wawrinka prevails after a punishing baseline rally , before a backhand on the stretch from djokovic fails to clear the net . wawrinka eventually holds to 30 with a solid first serve .
at 30-15 , nishikori has an opening to level the game , but after working his opponent out of position , he could only send a forehand just long of the baseline . he remains interested after taking the next point , but a net cord helps out wawrinka and he is able to hold when the japanese nets .
better from ebden , working the ball around the court nicely . he 's helped by a poor youzhny return blocked into the net and gets his first game of the set with a nice spinning serve down the middle .
evans starts well , stepping into court to put away a forehand down the line , and a simply ridiculous smash on the back foot takes him to 30-15. he throws up a double fault , before responding with a super serve down the middle . the pair then get embroiled in a lengthy rally , but nishikori twitches first and evans regains his three-game advantage .
despite the disappointment of the last game , nishikori comes out firing at the start of this one , blasting a forehand down the line to earn 30-0. a first serve then helps him to 40-0 but the 10th seed looks a little stiff walking to get his towel . he still holds to love though when cilic goes long .
rola has come to play this afternoon . he concedes the first point but two thunderous forehands into the corner of the court get him to 40-15. murray responds in kind , but he ca n't prevent rola getting a game on the board .
he takes it , just ! a backhand from the number two seed lands right on the baseline but verdasco 's mishit shot just dips over the net . murray hits to the spaniard 's backhand and his attempted pass almost makes it over but not quite .
muller ca n't return djokovic 's first serve , and the world number one hits an ace two points later as he races to a 40-0 lead . muller gets off the mark with a big return , forcing a mistake from djokovic , but he top seed seals it with another ace .
the 21-year-old resorts to an aggressive form of tennis , and it brings him a love game . however , the trainer is on ...
gasquet looks good with a strong backhand that buries stan at the baseline , but the fourth seed draws level with positive attacking work off the front foot . the frenchman gives stan a point for free with a splice into the net , but wawrinka ca n't take the initiative as he also finds the mesh . stan eventually wins the game as gasquet produces an error and is then undone by an ace .
what a time for your second double fault ! at game point it is instead deuce . however , he responds with a great net point to finish with a reaction volley . then an ace consolidates the break - this is the wawrinka we have seen so far at the australian open .
yet another stunning backhand winner from wawrinka makes it 5-5 in fifth . this fantastic match could still go either way .
the pair continue to go stride-for-stride as stakhovsky also holds to love , with federer shooting long with a backhand return .
at 15-15 , wawrinka gets himself into a baseline exchange but he goes for extra too early and see a shot clear the baseline . he will be disappointed with that . djokovic creates two game points with a top-spin forehand before completing the hold with an ace .
it 's a comfortable hold for murray as he appears to have upped the intensity on his serve at the start of this second set , forcing return errors from goffin to allow him to quickly take the game .
a miscued forehand gives murray a chance at 30-15 , but that is quickly taken away by a big first serve and an ace . federer is on top on the rod laver arena .
federer takes the opening point by taking advantage of wawrinka dropping his racquet to convert a comfortable passing shot but wawrinka gets to 15-15 with a timely first serve . the wind plays havoc during the next point and it 's federer who blinks first in framing a backhand . federer gets back to 30-30 - the closest he has been for some time - but wawrinka remains composed to fire down two serves that his opponent ca n't handle .
early errors leave things tied at 15-15 , only for federer to showcase an outstanding volley on the attack to move in front . he tries to cut simon short next time , but the frenchman comes up good with a cross-court backhand . federer ultimately takes the set , however , with a beauty of an ace . the veteran is looking totally untroubled here ...
muller appears to be on his way to a comfortable hold , following a forehand volley with back-to-back aces , but djokovic gest back into the game with a couple of well-placed backhands . the world number 42 ups his game though , and sees it out with his third ace of the game .
he takes it ! wonderful forehand accuracy from goffin , going three or four times to verdasco 's backhand before finally beating him down the forehand line . good play , and it 's advantage the belgian now .
danger once again for federer , who drops the first two points on serve . federer plays a fine winner into the corner , but nadal finds another miracle shot in getting a backhand over the net that forces federer to frame a volley . it 's two break points to nadal , and although he misses out with the first , he drives a forehand winner past the swiss on the next to seal the first break of the match .
goffin starts the game well , coming into the net to smash a winner post his opponent , but a couple of balls to the net allow murray to take the lead . however , the belgian dips deep to win the next two points before pressuring murray with a volley , which the scot can only return wide to give goffin his first game of the match .
comfortable hold from murray and he finishes with another ace down the middle . a very good game from the brit and novak is showing a bit of frustration .
a very surprising high standard of tennis continues from darcis , who takes a comfortable hold to star the second set . nadal needs to react strongly with his next service game , but definitely looks a little rattled by the strong shot making of his opponent .
it was nearly a yard out . he takes the next point to get to 40-30 , but tsonga digs out a quite superb backhand volley out from underneath the nets and drops it dead weight into gasquet 's court . he 's in unbelievable touch .
robredo draws wawrinka into the net before passing him with a glorious backhand down the line , and he holds to love in comfortable fashion . can wawrinka hold his nerve in the next game ?
how frustrating is that for almagro ? just as he looked to have taken control of the match petzschner breaks back instantly . one can only imagine what 's going through the spaniard 's mind . something angry , no doubt .
again it is a poor start for nadal to klizan 's service game as the slovakian races into a 30-0 lead when nadal nets twice in quick succession . the pair then exchange points , but klizan holds when nadal fires wide .
rochus is being sent to all four corners here by a sprightly and tactically excellent ferrer . he gets two break points and on the second one rochus goes long after a brutal rally to give ferrer the advantage .
best game of the match by a long , long way . some stunning rallies and points won by both players . murray eventually comes out on top following a 10-minute battle . lopez serving again to stay in the set .
becker falls 0-15 behind when murray finds the line with a forehand , before an immaculate drop shot just clears the net for 0-30. a blistering forehand gets becker back into the game , but murray brings up two break points when a backhand clips the net and drops over . the german saves both , though , and he sees out the game when murray goes long twice in succession . somewhat of a missed opportunity for the 26-year-old .
roger looks to apply some pressure on stan with a charge to the middle , and he comes up trumps when his opponent pulls wide . some experienced work on first and second serve establish set point , which the number two seed takes despite having produced a double fault on the way to taking advantage of this contest .
ferrer misses his first two returns , but manages to engage in a lengthy rally in the third point of the game . nadal manages to dictate play with his backhand and clinches the point with a brilliantly executed drop shot , but he fires his forehand long on the next point . however , he holds serve when ferrer just slices a forehand return wide .
believe it or not , that 's another hold . the serves are n't particularly brilliant , but they seem to be dominating .
a couple of first serves help federer to 40-0 , and the love hold is completed when nadal goes for too much on a forehand return .
he finishes with a good , wide ace and does indeed hold first up . it 's already a better set than his first one . can he now attack the murray serve ?
the opening two points are shared but murray powers through the remainder of the game , which is completed with an heavily-sliced approach shot that catches the line and turns into a winner .
djokovic stays in the final point with a great lob , before murray goes wide with a forehand . a little more resistance from murray , but it 's a simple hold in the scheme of things . pressure back to the brit .
a routine hold for roddick leaves him just one game away from the last 16 .
a good hold that time from verdasco and neither player is getting much of a look-in at his opponent 's serve .
kukushkin gets a warm round of applause from centre court as he manages to hold after saving four double-break points .
after all that he has provided this match , it would have been harsh for sousa to end the match on the receiving end of a bagel set , but that 's not going to happen now . he plays a solid game to halt murray 's momentum , but it 's going to take much more to get him back into this contest .
there 's a danger that this will fall away from fognini very quickly indeed . he looks a beaten man out there as nadal cruises to what might even be his first love service game of the match so far .
a poor first point suggests that gasquet might have thrown in the towel as far as this second set is concerned , but another backhand passing shot suggests otherwise . he holds to 30 to force the world number one to serve for a two-set lead .
first set dimitrov ! the 22nd seed reels off four straight points to get out of danger and become the first person to take a grand slam set from nadal in 2014. a nerveless overhead smash made it 15-30 , before two aces and a service winner wrapped up a crucial hold to 30 .
ferrer attacks from the baseline at the start of the game , before delivering a couple of fast serves . bautista agut digs deep to get a couple of points on the board , but he then hits the ball into the net to hand the game to ferrer . could we be heading to another tiebreak ?
impressive start by dimitrov . he wins a 12-stroke rally behind his second serve to move 30-0 in front before nadal fails to return another huge first serve . the spaniard then cracks a forehand winner , but a second ace from dimitrov seals a confident hold to 15 .
murray should be 0-40 ahead , but two careless shots see rola hold a 30-15 lead . the scot then proceeds to spray a couple of shots long of the baseline and rola has avoided the bagel . he looks pleased with that .
berdych opens with a forehand error and he 's fortunate to avoid falling 0-30 behind after framing a smash . however , murray has 15-30 after a net-cord helps his return , before a wild double fault gives murray two break points . berdych gets into next rally but he eventually goes long to hand murray the break !
three games in a row for verdasco as he booms his sixth ace of the match to hold .
federer 's pace is too much for davydenko to handle , as he races to another easy service hold .
another easy hold for wawrinka . he takes the first three points without reply , and although he sends a forehand into the net , robredo misses the target on the next .
djoko is once again the man serving first in the third set and he edges ahead with a hold to 15 .
that could be the turning point in the game and does n't it mean a lot to him ? he has really stepped up his game since losing that third set and i fully expect him to see it out now .
just superb stuff from the seven-time french open champion . brands is comfortably able to return his opponents serve , but struggles to move around the court quickly enough when nadal starts looking to the sidelines . nadal races to 40-0 , before sealing the game with a perfectly placed forehand down the left-hand side of the court .
becker should take the first point , but he misses an easy shot down the line . murray shows him how it is done with two punishing forehands into the open court . becker gets on the board when murray goes long , but he holds serve when the german nets a volley .
untidy start from nadal as the world number one hits the net for 0-15 , but the spaniard responds with a powerful volley from the middle of the court . the pair then exchange points for 30-30 , with nadal missing the chance to push home his advantage . the spaniard regains the advantage , however , with a brilliant forehand , but klizan shows wonderful hands at the net to level it at deuce . nadal then fires long to hand klizan advantage and the slovakian breaks when nadal hits the net .
no . it wo n't . it 's power and finesse rolled into one game for tsonga , who takes his fourth love service game with a big backhand followed by a volley into the space he had opened up . federer must hold now to take us into a tie-break .
just one point earned against janowicz 's serve in open play so far , with another procession keeping this first set deadlocked . time for one of these two unheralded quarter-finalists to make a move and wrestle control of the match .
gasquet looks on course for a comfortable opening hold , but 30-0 soon becomes 30-30. the frenchman reaches game point when djokovic misses out with a backhand , but it 's deuce after a gasquet double fault . the underdog comes through , though , after firing an ace down the middle .
set tsonga ! federer is wide with a forehand and tsonga has another look-in and this time the ball flies off the edge of the swiss 's racquet ! first blood tsonga !
strong first serves from reynolds keep this match on serve . surviving those break-point chances should be enough to ease early nerves for the 30-year-old , but he must cut those unforced errors out at the baseline as a matter of urgency .
murray will feel that he had the chance to earn a set point in that game . he could n't though and djokovic puts away a backhand winner to force the scot to serve it out . massive game coming up .
at 30-30 , murray comes into the net for a drop shot , which goffin stretches to return , but ca n't return to the other side of the court to reach murray 's volley , which gives the defending champion a chance for another break . goffin forces the game to deuce , before digging deep to see out the game with an overhead smash . he 's still a break down in this set , but is n't out of it yet .
goffin takes a rare lead in a murray service game when the brit sends his forehand just wide before the belgian beats him with a solid return . however , murray ups his game , firing the fastest serve of the match so far at 121mph past the world number 105 .
wawrinka fights back to hold for the third consecutive service game , nerves of steel under pressure from both players .
goffin takes the game to move 4-3 in front . there 's life in this one , but you have to fancy verdasco .
murray brilliantly converts a backhand volley at the net but a wild forehand sees djokovic back at 15-15. the 2012 winner is struggling a little now , and a double fault and a backhand into the net give djokovic two break points , and despite murray improving during the next rally , the top seed breaks after latching onto a murray drop shot .
game three is all about dimitrov , as he hits two aces , an unreturnable 219kph serve and a double fault en route to holding to 30 .
murray has struggled to read the sousa match throughout this contest but at 30-0 down , he picks one and puts it away . sousa then throws in a double fault before murray gets the better of the next exchange to earn a break point . he gets a look at a second serve and that 's enough for him to set the wheels in motion to over-power his opponent . that could be a huge moment in this match .
tsonga could do with an immediate response , and he had a glimmer of a chance when forcing federer to net at 15-15. however , that 's as good as it gets for the number 10 seed , and a forehand winner and a perfectly-timed drop-shot helps seal the game . after just 88 minutes , federer is three service holds away from the last eight .
more good defensive work from djokovic , who is just so good at getting to shots he has no right to reach . a poor attempted lob allows cilic to take the first point , however , while the big man shows a deft touch to secure the next with a pick-up shot at the net . two more quick points follow for a love game .
federer easily holds his serve again , and now needs just one game to progress to the third round .
gasquet saunters into a comfortable lead in this second set . tsonga needs to gather himself , and quick . he can still do something in this one , but at the very least ca n't let this rot last for two sets .
the two players begin the game with undoubtedly the point of the match . the rally must have exceeded 20 shots , before murray whipped a forehand winner past mayer . the next two points are shared before the scot sends down his fifth ace , following it up with a backhand winner .
how frsutrating for murray , not to mention those of us following . he slams a weak forehand into the net and lopez has a break back .
yet another berdych winner as he crashes nadal 's back past before he knows it . nadal gets himself back on track with a well worked point , but again he makes a poor mistake on double fault to give the czech control of the game . berdych wins two break points as he opens the court with a lovely backhand slice to force nadal out wide before crashing a forehand past him . nadal reduces the deficit , but yet again another double fault from the spaniard gives the number seven seed the game . this is not the nadal we are used to seeing !
it is a fairly simple hold for novak , who has to revert to some adroit play on his second service at times . an ace and brutal forehand help him on his way to a 40-15 lead , before the game is capped off with the truest of backhands straight down the line to catch cilic cold .
tsonga gets the first ace of the match , followed by the second and third as he quickly wraps up another comfortable service game . aside from in the third game of this set , goffin has shown little aggression against the frenchman 's serve .
a wonderful defensive effort earn djokovic the break of serve and sixth successive game . the pendulum has swung in the serb 's favour and he lets out a huge roar of approval after winning that game .
stan 's backhand is something else . if the whole tennis thing does n't work out he could probably be a very successful pimp . it 's that backhand which helps him into a break of serve with a few ferocious returns that has gasquet scrambling all around the court to reach the shots . he 's warming to the task now , you feel .
the key to federer getting back into this match is avoiding exchanges that advance past 10 shots , and that 's something that happened too much in the opener . despite losing a lengthy rally , he reaches 40-30 but a double fault gives djokovic deuce . federer gets back on the front foot , though , executing a one-two off his first serve to get the job done .
stepanek continues to look extremely solid on serve as he mixes up his shots with some efforts at the net as well as some groundstrokes , preventing djokovic from picking up a single point . already it feels like this set could be heading to same way as the last , ending with a tiebreak .
is there a better backhand in the men 's game than the one that wawrinka possesses ? the shot that he used to send a winner down the line to level up the score at 30 apiece would suggest that there is n't . he even gets a break point , but a wide serve from nadal forces deuce . the spaniard goes on to complete the job , but it 's a real escape .
break and set ! murray wants this set done and dusted , and he goes on the attack to move to 0-30 , but mayer strikes back with a big first serve for 30-30. however , the scot blazes a return winner past the german and he has set point , which he converts when mayer ca n't handle a barrage of groundstrokes from inside the court .
rosol looks a beaten man . nadal races into a 40-0 lead courtesy of a smash before rosol lets out his frustration in blasting another forehand wide of the mark .
first set nadal : the world number two holds to 15 and takes the opener 6-4 courtesy of a solitary break of serve .
federer opens up with the serve , but is thwarted by a poor return that hits the net . the veteran looks to rush the net at the next point , only for simon to cut another past him to send the 33-year-old 30-0 down . he 's soon back in it , though , with a comical smash at the net and he quickly moves back level with a standout ace . another beast of a serve takes federer ahead and another non-returnable service sees him close out the game .
break for golubev as the 26-year-old secures his first game . golubev gets on the board at 30-0 when murray hits the net , before producing a close-range volley to level at 30-30. a fine forehand then hands golubev break point , but he hits the net to leave another game at deuce . murray then double faults to leave golubev with another break point , but deuce two occurs when golubev fires long . eventually golubev breaks following two unforced errors from murray .
comfortable hold for sousa , who has a couple in a row on his own serve . bit of frustration from murray in that one ; i ca n't see what for , i think noise from the crowd . not sure how he heard anything , the atmosphere has been appalling today .
back on his own serve , federer takes control at 40-0 and closes the game out with a wonderful chip on the backhand that has simon all at sea . incredible dominance from the swiss in that service game .
tsonga deserves plenty of credit for remaining competitive in this match . he confidently holds to love to force federer to serve for the match . he made inroads on the swiss 's serve in his last service game . can he go one better this time around ?
yet another easy hold , this is starting to get a bit repetitive . this match needs a break point , the crowd are n't that in to it either at the moment , they need something to cheer .
brilliant play from novak to win that . wawrinka got lucky with a net cord shot , but the serb was in like a flash to dink it over the net and beyond the sprinting swiss . it 's a comprehensive first-set win and already this looks like it might be over quickly .
where has that come from ? rola plays a superb point before sending an inside-out forehand flashing past murray . it 's 15-15 , but murray responds with a flashing backhand effort of his own to edge ahead . is murray beginning to lose focus ? he concedes two points in a row to give a third break point to rola , but again , he comes up trumps with a one-two off his first serve . the minor blip is over when rola nets a return and the 27-year-old is two games away .
we go close to seeing wawrinka inflicted a broken service game , as he leads 40-30 with break point , but gasquet battles back gamely to survive ! tennis is a sport that takes a tonne of inner strength to negotiate the sternest of tests , and both players are being asked to dig deep here . very deep .
a third ace of the match gets murray back to 15-15 , but a net cord favours federer and he takes advantage to put away a forehand winner for 15-30. murray replies with a powerful backhand , before drilling another ace down the middle . murray holds with a forehand into the corner and he needed that .
some uncharacteristic errors from nadal get him into a hole at 15-30 , but he digs himself to safety with some much improved ball striking , eventually holding to 30 thanks to a trademark forehand topspin winner .
kyrgios fires another two aces past his opponent on his way to another comfortable hold of serve , as he does n't appear to be losing any intensity during his own service games . incidentally , the players have now been on court for 2 hours 40 minutes !
oh it 's game on now ! that was a game with top five player in the world written all over it . he 's back on serve and picks up his first break at the very last time of asking !
no jitters from verdasco at the start of the second as he holds to love , with murray careless with a forehand to gift his opponent the game .
not the best start to the game from murray as the scot double faults to leave golubev 0-15 ahead . however , golubev then nets to leave the score at 15-15. golubev responds with a wonderful forehand to move ahead once more , but then misses a murray forehand as the score moves onto 30-30. the game heads for deuce when both exchange backhands and eventually golubev breaks with a powerful forehand .
verdasco does hold , forcing murray to serve the set out and send us into a decider . can he do it ?
it 's a much better service game from federer this time around . the world number two hits some fantastic shots to force errors from his opponent , and also finds a brilliant overhead forehead winner to keep the fourth set with serve .
can falla stop the rot ? the colombian continues to battle hard , but an immense backhand winner from wawrinka tells the world number 87 that he is going to need something special to stay in this match . it 's 15-30 , and wawrinka comes up with another piece of magic , blasting the ball down the line past a despondent falla . rather cheekily , wawrinka challenges a call after already playing the shot , but it goes against him , and falla is back at deuce . the colombian is forced to save another break point , but he comes through the game in superb fashion with a backhand into the corner that clipped the line .
djokovic holds to 40 following two cheap points .
federer is definitely being tested far more in this second set but despite exerting pressure benneteau just can not make a dent in his opponent 's serve . another consummate performance on the backhand side draws the pair level at 4-4 in the second set .
subdued is n't even the word for this game right now , with cilic in total control . tsonga does respond , though , by producing an unchallenged service game to open the third set .
well if there is to be some rain , murray is certainly trying to make sure he does n't get caught in it as he quickly notches up another hold of serve without goffin getting a single point on the board .
another hold from djokovic . he 's looking fresher and more inventive than murray at the moment . murray 's got to be careful now . he can not afford to go two breaks down .
there 's little resistance now on the federer serve , but the swiss had to be alert at the net after paire reached what looked a certain winner .
a good rally starts the game as berdch miscues slightly to hit the net to get nadal off the mark . the next rally is even better as both players produce stunning shots before berdych executes a delicate slice , which enables him to open up the court to find a winner . a double fault gives berdych a his chance to apply pressure on the spaniard , although he responds with a forehand winner across the court . both players trade winner again and nadal rescues a break point with an ace before hammering a winner to keep himself alive in the tournament .
gasquet shows no nerves whatsoever in striking his way to a 40-0 advantage , and the game is won with an effortless one-two off his serve . robredo will serve to remain in the set for a second time .
a phenomenal match takes another twist as wawrinka smashes a huge forehand down the line and past a floored djokovic . the swiss talent has held off an onslaught to level the match at two sets apiece and now a quarter-final place is up for grabs .
wawrinka powers his way to 30-0 , before murray halts him in his tracks with a backhand lob . wawrinka then goes long with a forehand , and out of nowhere , murray has 30-30. murray has yet to create a break point , and it 's the same story here after a wawrinka smash . it 's another game to wawrinka , after murray fails with another attempt at a lob .
wawrinka takes his seventh game from nine to go ahead in this third set . he has really stepped it up , but equally djokovic 's levelled has dropped a lot .
game , set & match ! ! !
another forehand into the net from the latvian and that 's one of the easiest breaks of serve that tsonga will ever get .
no signs of kubot growing disheartened as he holds to love , recovering quickly form a slip at the baseline to win four successive points .
djokovic eases to 30-0 but murray halves the deficit by thumping a first-serve return back at the serb . a backhand is then hooked wide by djokovic for 30-30 but he escapes with game point when murray just misses with a cross-court return . however , murray takes the next two points to earn another chance to break , which he takes when djokovic miscues a backhand from the baseline .
nadal gets his first ace of the match , but a couple of clumsy errors allow klizan a 30-15 lead . nadal is putting much more power into his ground strokes , but gives it too much from behind the baseline to give klizan a chance to break back , which he does when nadal fires another shot long .
we are only six games in , and it feels as though nishikori is already feeling a little deflated . maybe he is still thinking about those two break points chances that he missed ? nadal cruises through the game , and it looks ominous .
this is as inconsistent as murray has performed since the start of the clay-court season . he 's coasting at 40-15 but two mistakes allow sousa to get back to deuce . the portuguese is unlucky not to catch the line with a heavy slice and murray takes advantage of his good fortune to take the game .
federer latches onto a poor second serve to get back to 15-15 , but nadal 's response is superb , directing a forehand winner into the corner . the swiss continues to fight , though , and he finds the corner with a wonderfully-timed backhand . oh roger ! on several occasions in this match , he has set up an opportunity but failed to take it , and it happens here . he hits a backhand drive volley into the net , and the game is gone . nadal is one away .
a routine service hold from murray . he is n't giving mayer a sniff now , and he is close to sealing his place in the fourth round .
nadal gifts brands the opening point of the game with a failed attempt at a drop shot , but is quickly back on level terms . two forehand winners followed by a missed return from brands are enough to give nadal the game though .
once again , lu seems to be having problems finding an accurate ball toss , but it does n't seem to affect him too much , as murray makes several long returns to give lu a 40-0 lead . he keeps the game alive with a superb lob to the baseline , before making a solid volley , but another long effort from the briton ensures that the third set remains on serve for now .
murray forces wawrinka into a mistake after a lengthy rally , but an extremely sloppy backhand allows wawrinka back into the game . the swiss number two just looks too good at the moment , but a net cord helps murray back in at 30-30. wawrinka catches the line with a first serve and it 's set point to wawrinka , which he takes when murray sends a return wide . the anguish from murray is for all to see ... and hear .
no mistakes from deuce onwards , though . tipsarevic went too long with his return to a second serve . benneteau 's now just a game away from taking the first set .
aaaaaaaaaaand the swiss breaks back ! what a chance for gasquet , who trips up at the finish line as wawrinka digs very , very deep to win that game . he had a man in a pink shirt and pink trousers on his feet applauding at one stage , and he deserved it . he was 30-15 down , but three quite brilliant points saw him snatch the win . amazing .
simon clinches the game and with no tie break in the decider , we will play on until someone secures a two-game advantage . both men look exhausted .
he may have left the comeback a bit late but dimitrov wins back to back games for the first time in the match after not letting the serb get a sniff of a point there . he rounded up the game with a delightful chip to the tramline .
a break straight back from the world number one , who has wawrinka scrambling with a huge forehand to bring the scores level in the deciding set .
federer is struggling to make an impact on the berdych serve right now . the czech holds to 15 .
good start to the game from cilic as he copes with an attempted drop shot before firing a powerful forehand that djokovic can only send into the net . cilic himself finds the net on the next three points , however , and djokovic finishes it off with a stylish forehand down the line . cilic is now serving to stay in the set .
there 's trouble for falla , after he misfires with successive shots to gift 0-30 to wawrinka . the swiss then steps in to put away an easy volley for three break points , but the first is saved when he ca n't handle a return . a second is easily saved too , but wawrinka breaks when falla throws in a double fault . will that halt his early momentum ?
a drop shot carrying extreme levels of backspin earns dimitrov a round of applause from nadal , as well as giving the 22nd seed a 40-15 lead . dimitrov goes on to hold to 30 .
many thought that it would be federer who would react best to the extended delay but djokovic has started this match ridiculously sharp . at 0-30 , he hammers federer into submission for three break points . the swiss saves the first two , but after a lengthy exchange on the third , it 's federer who blinks first and djokovic lands the first blow .
a big return does enough to unbalance wawrinka and hand djokovic the crucial break . he will now serve for the third set and the overall lead .
murray 's beginning to create his own highlight reel . he loses the opening point , but he takes the next after chasing down a lob and firing a forehand winner on the turn . the game reaches 30-30 , before murray thunders down two more baseline winners to break the german 's serve , and perhaps his spirit in the process .
djokovic earns another important hold ( to 30 ) , as well as the respect of his opponent , who offers his applause after the serb wins a stunning exchange involving five extravagant drop shots .
nadal is now one game away from taking the second set and perhaps all but guaranteeing his place in the semi-finals . wawrinka has had chances to get back into this , but the spaniard is now edging away from the swiss .
tomic shows nice variety to save three set points and force federer to serve out this opening set .
while kyrgios relies on big , powerful serves , nadal uses perfect placement to cause problems for the young australian , who can only fire his first three returns long , before slicing a backhand into the net to allow nadal to wrap up the game .
rafa lands three big first serves to save both break points and reach advantage . a slight blip then occurs as he misses a first serve and loses the point by thrashing another wayward forehand . however , two more first serves do the job as he holds to 40 .
that 's some recovery skills from djokovic , who somehow comes out on top at the net , but haas responds with an unreturnable first serve . the serbian player replies with two huge returns of serve to earn his first match point , but he can only net when the chance was there to hit the winner . haas does fantastic to hang in there on the next two points to ensure that djokovic must serve for the match .
muller serves well to leave djokovic having to try to serve the set out next . the luxembourg player mixes it up a bit , coming into the net for a couple of volleys , before clinching the game with an ace .
wawrinka opens with an ace but nishikori dominates the next rally before stepping in to convert a volley . he 's pumped after that . he 's further energised when he cracks a forehand that clips the line and he has two break points after a sharp return brings the error . wawrinka saves the first with a fine serve out wide , and the same occurs on a second as he fires a 138mph at the body of the fifth seed . however , nishikori has a third break point after a sublime backhand winner but it 's saved with an ace . unreal tennis . wawrinka has set point with a brutal first serve and it 's converted when nishikori nets under pressure . that was a huge game .
break back ! at 30-30 , djokovic hits a sloppy forehand to give dimitrov a chance to get the break straight back , but a big serve from the top seed takes the game to deuce . however , the 11th seed gets a second chance to break back when djokovic misses his backhand , and his takes it with a sliced volley at the net .
the frenchman shows good pace on the ground to hold his service game and early on there 's not a lot to choose between the two .
nishikori stops cilic running away with the game with a fantastic forehand lob but the croatian smashes his way into a 40-15 advantage . some brilliant play from nishikori keeps him in the game , and probably the match , but another smash from cilic seals the a three-game advantage .
a poor start to the game from baghdatis , including a double fault , gave ferrer a 30-0 lead , before a fantastic backhand gave ferrer two break points . he converts at the first time of asking to take the game and the break .
a tale of three aces ! federer 's service is on form and looks ferocious , as the swiss player takes the last three points with some huge shots . both players looking strong on serve so far , but something 's got to give eventually .
nadal starts the game well , but he gives rosol a chance for another winner and he bludgeons the ball into a corner . on the next point , a rosol backhand hits the top of the net and goes long - that 's how hard he is hitting the ball . nadal takes the next two points and we remain on serve .
federer does manage to make some good returns against the tsonga serve , but he 's still beaten in rallies by the frenchman , struggling with his accuracy as he sends several shots long . tsonga needs just one game to level the match .
murray breaks ! he is on his way to the semi-finals . i know it , he knows it and pippa middleton , who is watching on with a glazed expression from the stands , probably knows it too !
not much offered up by stan back on his own service at first glance , as he rattles along to a 30-0 lead . wawrinka tries to steer one into his opponent , but comes up short at the net . stan 's next rally sees him spoon beyond the baseline to bring the scores level , before cutting wide to give federer a chance at the break . roger sees it out when wawrinka chucks another one deep . the veteran has the advantage , then ...
a sign of nerves from wawrinka ? he throws in a double fault for 15-15 but he is fortunate to find the line with a forehand winner . a 15th ace earns two game points and a 16th takes us to a tie-break .
federer opens with a double fault but he is back at 15-15 when djokovic nets . the swiss is looking to go on the attack but he blazes a forehand wide of the mark , although he saves himself with an authoritative point . djokovic outlasts federer in the next rally to bring up a break point , but it 's a nerveless one-two from the second seed . djokovic gets another chance when federer nets and this time , he takes it when the swiss does the same on the next point .
the czech is n't helping himself with the amount of balls that he is sending out of court . nadal does n't have to do much to draw the mistakes out of rosol and the left-hander holds to love .
federer moves 0-15 ahead when robredo fires a powerful forehand long of the baseline , but the spaniard returns with a fine passing shot to level the score at 15-15. federer then comes to the net once more for 15-30 , but 30-30 arrives when the swiss nets . federer again comes to the net in the next point for 30-40 , but deuce arrives following a brilliant robredo forehand . the spaniard eventually holds with a fine passing shot .
an ace secured a hold for the slovakian in the opening game of the second set . tipsaveric seemed to be struggling with the light conditions , as sun and shade split the court .
monfils tries to end a long rally with a high lob but his attempt drifts wide and simon has the crucial break of serve .
another ace up the middle from murray and that 's game . djokovic stares at the line but decides not to challenge . if he had then he would have been right as hawk-eye shows that it was just wide .
a rapid break from lu and he 's one game away from going 2-1 up in sets . no resistance whatsoever from monfils , surely he should just call it a day ?
strong start to the second set for golubev as he holds serve to move onto the board . a powerful forehand moves the 26-year-old 40-15 ahead following a short stroke from murray , but he then fires long to leave the score at 40-30. golubev manages to hold , however , with a powerful smash .
a big , big hold for almagro . he looked in trouble there but remains a game ahead thanks to his 18th ace of the match .
nadal loses the opening point of his service game , but he responds to holds authoritatively to 15 .
djokovic has a chance to get a break on the board early in this third set as muller gets a volley all wrong . the world number one misses a forehand though , letting muller off the hook , and the luxembourg player keep the set on serve with a volley followed by a big serve . even if djokovic ends up winning this match in straight sets , it wo n't have been an easy night 's for work the top seed .
kyrgios makes a good start , picking up the first two points of the game when nadal hits his forehands long , but he quickly levels the game . however , the australian puts him under pressure by coming into the net , forcing nadal to hit his forehand wide and present kyrgios with a chance to break . the world number 144 tries to clinch it with a shot down the line , but it 's fractionally wide , allowing nadal to escape .
del potro quickly responds by registering his third love service game of the night . djokovic , who appeared to be conserving his energy , will now serve for the match .
berdych takes the lead and the mini-break with a strong forehand down the line , but the seventh seed frames a second serve to see the score return to 4-4. berdych is all over the next point , with a second smash getting the job done , but murray serves out wide to get to 5-5. this is a huge point . berdych looks in control but he nets to hand murray a set point , but it 's a superb reply from berdych , who steps in to put away a volley .
a final show of resistance perhaps on serve from tomic , who closes out a comfortable hold with a deft drop shot that has the court one crowd purring in admiration . berdych will now serve for the match , can the youngster go for broke and put a dent in the czech 's quite formidable first serve .
there it is , djokovic cruises to an unanswered game that wraps up the second set . it 's been one-way traffic for this match so far and the serb might not need too much longer before securing his spot in the next round .
likewise , a forehand into the net . he 's angry with himself , and he 's beating himself as much as ferrer is . a break at the first time of asking for ferrer , and this wo n't last much longer .
nadal holds to 15. djokovic must again serve to stay in the french open .
djokovic takes a lucky 30-0 lead as he mis-hits a cross-court volley , but sousa is n't quite fast enough as he makes the return . the serb is let down by a couple of errors at the net , hitting back-to-back backhands into the net to allow sousa to level the scores . the portuguese finally seems to be finding some rhythm as he comes into the net to smash his forehand past djokovic before a mistake from the world number two gives sousa the hold . djokovic looks a little sloppy during that game , which may have given his opponent hope of staying with him in the second set .
effortless hold to start the set for the spaniard . now he must make inroads into dodig 's serve - or at least start converting break points .
rafa consolidates his break by holding to 30. the spaniard is far from delighted though , having produced two double faults in that game .
a smash and ace take federer to 30-0 , but murray executes the perfect lob to halve the deficit . a serve-and-volley is enough for the second seed to reach two game points before a return is sent into the net .
pospisil has looked rejuvenated since the break and a double fault and baseline mistake from murray give him 0-30. murray is lucky to avoid three break points when the canadian sends a smash wide , before the world number 56 blasts a forehand return long . two more efforts into the net from pospisil hands murray the game .
mathieu is now serving very accurately . until of course a double-fault at 40-0. however , he responds magnificently with a deep , wide serve that asks too much of djokovic on the return .
djokovic is keen to get another look at the muller serve as quickly as possible as he fires three aces past the world number 42 on his way to a swift hold .
i get the impression that murray knows what he needs to do off the federer serve , but he is n't executing the plan at the moment . however , he is helped out by a couple of mistakes by his opponent , and the scot has 15-30. federer eases to 30-30 , but murray misses a huge opportunity for a break point when missing with a cross-court forehand return . that 's the chance come and gone .
it 's a 14th ace from ferrer that brings up the hold of serve . that game could prove pivotal .
that 's impressive from tsonga , who holds to 15 with three successive big serves . tsonga has n't played bad in this match , he 's just been blown away by an irresistible performance from federer . he 'll be waiting if the swiss 's level drops off .
goffin refuses to be intimidated by the figure of the serb advancing to the net and places a shot just out of his opponent 's reach . however , from 40-15 up the belgian is pegged back to deuce but he manages to hold on to take the opener .
stan the man eases to 30-0 , but for once , he misses with a forehand . murray ca n't latch onto a second serve though , and it 's two game points for wawrinka . we are just short of the two-hour mark and murray is on the verge of losing his grip on the us open trophy .
it 's a shocker of a start from wawrinka , who follows a bad mistake on a volley with a double fault , and although he halves the deficit , he gives djokovic two break points after being overpowered by the serbian . the first is saved emphatically , before djokovic squanders the second when a forehand goes long of the baseline . the swiss reaches game point , but djokovic remains active with an excellent forehand return . it 's not for long though , and an ace from wawrinka pulls him through .
federer is furious that a murray lob is n't called out , and the scot fires down a forehand winner for 0-15. that 's only gone and pumped the swiss up , and he aggressively puts away a forehand at the net . a 23-shot rally is fiercely fought , but federer prevails , only to send a backhand long . we are at 30-30. what next ? it 's set point to federer ! he missed with an attempted backhand winner after some fine work from the swiss , and federer is two sets up after murray goes long with a forehand pass . it 's an uphill task from here ...
at the moment , gasquet needs something special to break the robredo serve and two stunning baseline winners get him to 30-30. the frenchman brings up break point , and a sublime backhand winner down the line seals the break .
an error of judgement from federer allows robredo to move 0-15 ahead in the fifth game of the third set , but a smash from the former world number one then levels the score at 15-15. another federer ace makes it 30-15 , before robredo nets for 40-15. robredo gains his second point of the game when federer nets , but the swiss holds when robredo fires wide .
a hold to love . and in double-quick time too . just what was needed . this set is far from over .
wawrinka has n't given up that 's for sure . he hits a terrifyingly good return to derail nadal and force the deuce . he takes the advantage after nadal lazily swings into the net for a break point . the swiss hits his return long and out to restart the situation . after a bit of to-an-fro , nadal claims the first game of the third set . wawrinka is in trouble .
federer moves out 30-0 in front on novak 's serve following two errors from the serbian , who responds with a booming serve that undercuts federer . parity is reached with a service winner and then goes in front when federer crashes his return into the net . novak holds when federer booms long .
it 's a comfortable start for the fourth seed . nadal tries to defend from the baseline , but he hits a couple of strokes wide , before ferrer wraps his opening service game up with an ace .
it 's a comfortable hold for ferrer . he really needs to step up to the almagro serve here , because he 's not even testing it at the moment .
delicious angle on federer 's in-to-out forehand at 40-15 and he again moves within a game of the fourth . stakhovsky 's forehand is waning a little and federer may start to target it more .
it ca n't inspire the spaniard to a break though as murray finds two big serves to level the set once more .
we 've seen three big statements by gasquet already in this set . he is n't going quietly , and he dominates this fifth game on his own serve to move 3-2 ahead . he made some cracking return shots to have wawrinka running all around the court !
federer moves 15-0 ahead when djokovic hits a forehand long , before coming to the net to claim a 30-0 lead . djokovic then hits the net for 40-0 and roger holds with yet another ace .
isner continues to defy common sense by produce a blistering service game , can he deliver when returning for once ?
as expected , although monfils got a couple of points , lu wraps up the set with a bagel . he leads 2-1. monfils will continue somehow .
it 's a slow start to the set from murray who , after getting to 30-15 , slices a backhand out of court . out of nowhere , he throws in a double fault , and rola has the chance to break . guess what , though ? like last time , murray delivers an ace out wide . during the next point , which was being evenly contested , a ball drops out of murray 's pocket and they replay the point , but murray regains his composure to take the next two to hold serve .
double break ! this is really rather good from federer so early in the tournament . he makes it a double break in set two by putting away his 19th winner with a calm forehand up the line with hanescu way out of position . you ca n't even get odds on a federer victory any more .
verdasco with a much simpler hold to 15. his big serving has returned to him in this set and murray has n't looked like breaking yet . oh how murray would take an easy service game right now .
an eighth ace and a murray winner earn the number eight seed 30-0 , but djokovic reads a drop shot and fires his response . like earlier in the set , a 69mph second serve is given the treatment by djokovic for 30-30 before murray explodes into life with a crushing forehand to earn game point and he repeats the feat to force djokovic to have to serve to remain in the set .
djokovic 's semi-compliant slump continues as he falls 15-40 behind on his own serve . however , he responds by digging in to finally put a game on the board in set three .
djokovic breaks : sousa is attempting to be as aggressive as possible . that decision is pleasing the fans , as it is contributing to some attractive tennis . however , it is pleasing djokovic even more . the serb is being played at his own game and this is allowing him to pick his opponent off with superb accuracy . he breaks to 40 .
some early pressure from murray in the game ends with that outrageous diving point , and the serb wraps up the game comfortable . again he came to the net in the final point , he has done a few times so far today .
a huge roar from janowicz as a deep forehand return at the baseline pays off , earning a vital break at the fourth time of asking . the giant polish number one will now serve for the first set as kubot just gets a touch too predictable at the net .
well murray seems to have forgotten about the match point . after reaching 15-40 , he spends the point on the defensive before unleashing a ridiculous backhand passing shot from the back of the court . the reaction says it all .
wawrinka 's frustration is for all to see after missing out on an opportunity to reach 0-30 , but he gets a break point when robredo goes wide . the next rally is the longest of the match , but wawrinka comes out on top with a brute of a forehand into the corner to establish an early break .
oh my . djokovic produces the most scintillating of reactive lobs to flummox murray to lead 0-15 and it gets worse for murray as he dumps a forehand into the net . murray fights back superbly with an ace and a 129mph first serve down the middle to earn game point and he holds for the first time tonight when djokovic goes long .
sousa continues his resurgence with a confident hold to love . he 's leaving nothing to chance when the ball is fired in short and the uncompromising approach looks his best chance of getting anything out of this encounter .
ferrer is stretched behind the baseline , and dolgopolov comes in for a volley , but his completed mis-judges it and fires it long , bringing up two break points for ferrer . his first attempt to convert goes wide , but dolgopolov misses the target on the next point to give ferrer the break .
could this be the moment ? djokovic takes the first point with another winner from a drop shot , before he beats the german at the net . haas then makes an error from the baseline and it is three break points for the world number one . he wastes no time in forcing the 35-year-old back , and haas goes long to edge nearer to defeat .
wonderful from almagro . the cheekiest of sliced drop shots sees him hold to make it 4-4 .
djokovic races to a 30-0 lead , before lopez recovers with a forehand pass across court after some risky play by djokovic . the serb responds well though , and takes the game with a forehand winner .
huge pair of aces from janowicz moves the pole to 40-15 and he gets on the board with a sublime drop shot that bounced sideways because of the spin imparted .
the world number six is finding his groove at the baseline , crashing home three forehand winners in a service hold to love . all about consolidating on serve and hanging tough now for tomic , but that is certainly easier said than done against the former finalist at sw19 .
ferrer quickly gets to 30-0 , before ripping an inside out forehand winner to go within a point of holding . he finishes with an ace to go ahead . can he do anything on almagro 's serve now ?
almagro looks like he 's starting to settle after a difficult first two service games . the spaniard forces a couple of wayward returns from nadal before wrapping up the game with a well-struck forehand down the line .
murray goes after the second serve and creates an opportunity to attack , but slams into the net .
djokovic applies pressure but wawrinka mixes things up to earn the first hold of the second set .
that 's now nine games on the trot for haase , and murray does n't seem to be interested in getting the trainer out at the change of ends . he 's slumped in his chair with a towel on his head .
djokovic holds one of the best games of the match so far . both players produced stunning winners and poor errors . biggest game of the night coming up ? i think so ...
but he double faults ! d'oh !
it 's a sublime start from murray , who executes a drop shot from the back of the court , but kyrgios powers back with a forehand winner , ace , and a huge first serve out wide . the australian double faults on game point before murray gets back to deuce with another drop shot . it 's kyrgios 's game though after he sends down a second ace and second forehand winner .
a difficult start to the game for federer 30-0 down before a series of powerful serves and stunning backhands brought him through . davydenko appears to have thrown caution to the wind , and is trying all sorts to attempt to catch federer out . nothing seems to be working for him though .
nishikori makes it 11 points in a row on serve to hold to love once more . he 's having a lot of joy with the serve-and-volley . makes you wonder why we are only seeing it in set three .
federer moves ahead in the set thanks to a love hold . the crowd traditionally love an underdog but they 're all on federer 's side here .
that 's that ! stan 's serve has been much better in this set and he 's 2-1 ahead . he takes a 40-0 lead , before his hard-hitting serve proves problematic for gasquet , and the swiss volleys home a winner after gasquet 's return to take control of the match now . is there any way back for the underdog ? of course , given that wawrinka - the third seed - has blown hot and cold throughout this match . unfortunately for gasquet , though , stan is growing better as the match goes on .
as the game goes in to its third hour , murray encounters the same problem as federer , he ca n't get federer 's serve back in play . there 's a bit a sense that both player might have eased off a little in the last couple of games as they realise they may be on court for quite some time yet .
the best rally of the match thus far arrives in the opening point as nadal again reaches a djokovic drop shot before whipping a backhand into the opposite corner . it becomes 0-30 as djokovic fails to reach a forehand onto the baseline , before the serbian nets to trail 0-40. the break does indeed arrive at the first time of asking as a challenge from nadal sees the ball drop long .
djokovic will want to get this done as soon as possible now , and two forehand winners down the line get him off to the perfect start in this service game . two mistakes from gasquet give him the love hold and he 's just three games away now .
still on serve as kubot keeps providing neat touch to deny janowic chances to unleash power from deep at the baseline . the world number 130 needs to maintain this high-energy approach in the match of his life and has made a confident start .
it 's such a tentative start from murray and he 's made to pay as ferrer races into a 0-30 advantage . that becomes 0-40 when murray nets a backhand and the love break is complete when murray ca n't handle a return after a weak second serve .
tsonga holds to 30 .
an ugly shot to start the game for berdych as nadal fires a forehand to his backhand side which skews off his racquet into the crowd . nadal begins to find his form in his strokes as he powers a forehand to the back of the court , which the czech ca n't return , while an ace soon follows from the spaniard . nadal secures the hold with relative ease with a simple serve and return to the opposite corner .
another ace from lopez gives him a 30-0 lead , but djokovic recovers . lopez moves to 40-15 ahead as djokovic hits the net from the baseline - just as the world number one was beginning to rediscover his rhythm from back there - before the spaniard held his serve to win the game .
despite taking the opening point , murray does n't look comfortable and concedes two double faults in a row . he responds by taking plenty off his first serve but it at least gets him into a few rallies and he 's able to hold to 30 .
what happened there ? wawrinka attempts to rip a backhand down the line but he completely misses the ball . a huge ace makes up for the error , but another glaring miss , this time from a volley , gives murray 15-30. that 's as good as it gets for murray , who floats a return wide after two big serves had given him game point .
federer starts brightly with an ace before coming into the net to win the next two points with volleys . federer tries to volley again to wrap up the game but a superb lob from lacko catches out the former champion , but he smashed his forehand long next time around to allow federer to consolidate his break .
it 's another hold from federer . both players seem to be in quite a hurry . the match has been underway for less than half an hour , and we 're already nine games in .
another confident hold from tomic as the 20-year-old sends an ace down the middle at 40-30. you can see the australian number one 's confidence growing throughout this second set , but can he translate that to a tangible success on the scoreboard ?
superb power and accuracy from stan gives him an early lead with a pummel down the line . he ca n't quite make the next return as the scores go level . gasquet pushes forward to earn a strong point in the corner and follows it up with a game-winning point as stand ca n't quite meet his return .
murray comfortably holds serve . his serve does n't look the weapon it was in the first three sets at the moment , but it 's still strong enough that federer has to work hard to make a return , with the swiss claiming just one point off the game .
murray is so unlucky with a forehand down the line after chasing down a smash , but that 's the small margins that could cost him a place in the final . djokovic extends his advantage to 30-0 before he crushes a forehand into the open court . too good . an easy smash confirms the game and he is two away .
murray must break here or else he is out . what can he do ? federer miss-hits a backhand into the net , before federer goes wide with a forehand . the swiss comes roaring back with a big serve down the middle , but murray has two break points after a fantastic return ! finally , but can he convert ? yes ! federer saves the first , but after federer floats a shot long , murray has the break !
after the opening two points are shared , wawrinka begins to unloads from the baseline and a startling cross-court backhand earns two game points . nishikori saves the first but a smash on the second seals the game for the swiss number two .
cilic does n't seem to downhearted about losing that second set as he holds comfortably .
simply too good from berdych . his return of murray 's serve had the scot back-peddling and the czech then returned to power a forehand winner down the line .
nadal races to a 40-15 lead as he looks to consolidate his break , but a double fault gives klizan some hope . however , a series of great shots from the net give nadal the game . he really seems to have woken up since going a set down .
composure and quality once more from the world number 135 , with darcis claiming a vital break with a forehand winner than sends nadal the wrong way . has nadal got enough left in the tank to respond ? you can never count out the eight-time french open winner , but he clearly looks to be bothered by his left knee when extending to reach the ball .
maybe not half an hour ... but close . sousa stops the rot with a solid service game and murray will have to hold now to wrap up the set .
of course , that 's a big if though . an ace down the middle and a wayward return from tsonga give federer 40-0 , and another easy hold is sealed when tsonga dumps a backhand return into the net .
tomic fires a super serve straight down the middle to take the opening point , but nadal outlasts him in the first lengthy rally of the match . tomic replies with two points in a row , including an ace , but he begins to flex his legs . that did n't look great . a passing shot keeps nadal in the game , but tomic sends down a second ace to win the first game . he looks to be struggling though ...
verdasco wraps up the game and consolidates his break with a nadal-esque whipped forehand to the corner .
however , the russian looks like he means business now and has raced into a 2-0 lead in the third set . mind you , he was 4-1 up in the previous one .
brilliant from federer as the world number four comes to the net to move 15-0 ahead with an overhead volley , before moving onto 30-0 when djokovic hits the net . federer 's 12th ace of the match brings 40-0 , but a running forehand from djokovic moves the serbian onto the board . federer holds , however , with a fine volley at the net .
berdych is doing a lot of running but it pays off on the first point as murray hits a weak backhand into the net , but the scot plays a couple of smart points to gain the lead . berdych gets back to 30-30 but a drive volley from murray brings up game point , which he takes with his sixth ace .
ferrer gets off to a good start with a forehand winner down the sideline , but has to wait to be awarded the point when bautista agut challenges . the hawkeye review fails to display on the on-court screen , meaning the umpire has to put in a phone call to find out whether the ball was good , much to the amusement of the crowd . despite the delay , ferrer keeps his cool to clinically wrap up the game , with bautista agut starting to look a little weary , having spent almost two hours on court .
monfils saves a pair of break points to claim a vital hold . he is clearly fired up with that one and acknowledges the crowd 's support as he races back to his chair .
djokovic nets in the first point for 15-0 , before federer then double-faults to leave the score level at 15-15. the swiss recovers to produce a powerful serve for 30-15 , however , before moving 40-15 ahead when djokovic nets . djokovic responds in the next point , however , with a wonderful return past his opponent . federer manages to secure the hold when djokovic fires a second serve into the net . nothing separating these two .
a quite exquisite backhand slice from federer draws a chorus of approval from the crowd , that was easily the best shot we 've seen so far today . benneteau has no answer to that kind of variety as the second seed holds to love with ease .
wow , ferrer breaks again comfortably and suddenly he 's a set up . nishikori started better , but ferrer stayed true to his game and took the first set .
strong start from federer as the swiss moves 15-0 ahead and then quickly onto 30-0 with another powerful serve . the next point brings 40-0 , but djokovic does get on the board when federer puts a forehand just wide . djokovic gains his second point of the game when federer fails to return a backhand , but the swiss manages to hold with a powerful serve .
a naff slice from murray at 40-15 but he ensures that he holds with a fifth ace of the match . amazing that janowicz has just one .
kyrgios returns well early on to force a mistake from nadal , but the spaniard responds with an ace before kyrgios hits his forehand into the net .
a piece of advice to you milos , stop coming to the net ! djokovic , again , fires a shot down at the big man 's feet and all he can do is limply put it into the net . raonic uses his height to put away an over-head impressively , but , again , he fluffs his lines at the net in what should have been a simple put-away . djokovic sends a shot long though to keep him in contention at 4-3 .
a horrible backhand from djokovic gives raonic hope at the beginning of the eighth game , but that is quickly extinguished by a driving volley from the serb . a bit of luck sends novak 40-15 up , and he regains a two-game lead when a flurry of brutal forehands forces raonic to find the net .
not bad from fognini there , who dinks a deft volley over the net to give himself the hold . not too much action at the net so far .
murray latches onto a second serve to take the early advantage before rola dumps a forehand over the baseline . the slovenian shows that he still has an interest in this match with making some coverage at the net for 30-30 , but he lets himself down with an unforced error into the net . murray misses out on the break point , but he takes the second chance after rola goes long .
a super one-two from murray gets him off to a good start , but he misses out after trying to take on a federer second serve . a stunning ace out wide takes the swiss into a 2-1 advantage , but murray steps in to smash his way to 2-2. federer has the mini-break when murray hits a backhand long , and that is immense from the swiss ! he claws several murray shots back over the net , forcing murray to wilt and put the ball long .
djokovic holds to 30 .
brands seems to have rediscovered his form as the third set has gone as he comfortably holds serve , but has he left it too late ? nadal will now serve for the set .
murray gets to a haase drop shot with seconds to spare but somehow just plops it into the net . he then goes long to give haase two break points . the dutchman goes long with the first and a swerving ace brings deuce . haase notches another three points before the scot finally takes the game on his first advantage following another great rally .
he 's been a model of consistency so far has djokovic and continues to pin benneteau back before eventually holding . he 's just biding his time here , looking for the opening , and you feel that it 'll come sooner rather than later .
a loud cry of vamos from nadal as he crashes a fifth ace down the line , keeping this second set on serve in the process .
nadal puts berdych on the back foot immediately as he pins up to the back of the court with an excellent couple of forehands to take a 30-0 lead . berdych works himself back into the game as he charges the net with a serve and volley to restore parity , while an error from nadal hands him a game point as he slices the ball into the net . the spaniard makes another mistake as he loses control of his attempted backhand slice , which falls out to hand the czech the game . he has a real chance to put the pressure on nadal here .
nadal quickly takes a 40-0 lead , but kyrgios keeps himself in the game with a cheeky shot between the legs . however , he fires his forehand into the net on the next point to keep the set on serve .
the perfect hold by murray , doing so to love . again he is just one game away from the final . can berdych keep up his recent revival and force a breaker ? we 're about to find out ...
what pressure ? he holds to love and now has just one more game required to take a famous win . he would be the first south african for a decade to get into the fourth round of a slam .
a poor volley sees tsonga fall 0-15 behind before djokovic comes out on top in two rallies to earn three break points . the first two are saved , but tsonga goes long on the third and the serbian has the opening break of the match .
tsonga moves further clear , but gasquet did push it to deuce . that 's something , at least . a hold is absolutely vital now , becuase if he can end up taking the set from this point then that could just knock the stuffing out of tsonga .
the two players share a superb opening exchange , which mayer wins , but murray replies with a forehand winner . a smash takes the german to 30-15 , but a net cord helps murray back to 30-30. murray has control of the next point but the umpire wrongly steps in and overrules a call . murray is n't impressed , but he wins the re-played point to earn a break point , but he frames a forehand high into the stands . the umpire correctly overrules on the deuce point , but wrongly penalises mayer . murray wastes another break point and the german comes through what was a crazy first game .
the third set starts in similar fashion to how the second ended . djokovic breaks dimitrov to love to take an early lead in the third and at this rate final set .
and another careless forehand gifts gasquet the break . i told you he had to have a dip somewhere , but i did n't expect it to be quite this dramatic . he 's all over the place at the moment .
youzhny gets lucky with a net cord early on in the game but it does n't affect murray who holds to 15 with his seventh ace of the match .
murray is having a few issues with his back . i will keep you posted . his first serve finds the mark , but a double fault cancels it out . you get the feeling that mayer senses murray is n't at 100 % , but an unforced error and coming into the net at the wrong time contribute to him falling 40-15 down . the reigning us open champion slips up with a drop-shot , but a forehand error from mayer concedes the game .
but , murray holds again to enforce the double break . five games in a row and this set will be wrapped up inside half an hour .
tsonga 's face is not a happy one at the moment as gulbis holds to love . will the frenchman be able to ride out this pain or will he become yet another retiree ?
after being drawn at 15-15 , federer serves wonderfully to set up a rush and leave novak stranded for 30-15. an ace at 115mph leaves things at 40-15 and federer finishes the game off with more great work at the net .
he 's winning this at a canter now . not even that ; a trot . a dodgy let call stops him winning the game with an ace out wide , so he goes down the t and that one stands .
mayer eases into a 30-0 lead , but murray shows no sign of giving the game away , firing a backhand down the line that mayer can only send wide . the world number 47 then goes long , and murray has break point . mayer saves it though , and manages to grind himself to a vital service hold .
murray restarts the match with a first serve that is sent into the net by his opponent , but the scores are level when pospisil catches the line with a forehand . murray opens up a 40-15 advantage before pospisil concedes the game when sending a return long .
djokovic has to work to consolidate the break , but he manages to keep his serve intact . muller hits some solid forehand to get the game to 30-30 , but a slices backhand from the top seed followed by a long backhand return from the world number 42 allow djokovic to escape .
again after just a touch of resistance djokovic takes his service game . murray has n't had a break point yet , but has saved a handful .
isner has taken control again and is now within two points of the second round .
federer really is flying now . davydenko is struggling to return to federer serve , and will find it difficult to get the break back unless he can move in to another gear .
that was an incredible turnaround from evans , but he has to maintain this momentum because nishikori will come out firing in this second set . the number 11 seed keeps evans on the back foot to move 15-30 ahead , and he earns two break point with a sliced put-away at the net . that 's a tame start from the brit , and he nets to concede the break .
federer moves within a game of the third set with a simple hold of serve . stakhovsky needs to fight again now , or will federer just step it up and prove too good ?
ferrer holds to win his third game in a row . planty of rallies in this one so far .
simple stuff from djokovic , who moves to 30-0 up before allowing his opponent back into the game with two unforced errors . djokovic regains the lead as lopez hits a forehand shot beyond the baseline , before djokovic takes the game with a placed winner . all novak now .
six from nine points won at the net so far from stepanek - a definite tactic here . he holds a close one and it remains with serve .
djokovic is showing some inconsistencies as he tries to see this match out . he takes a 30-0 lead as he serves for the match , but sousa starts to attack , forcing more errors from the second seed to give the portuguese the game . djokovic will certainly need to improve is he 's to go on to be a contender at these championships .
djokovic is looking aggressive against the berdych serve , and the pressure forces the czech to a double fault , but he finds his form to serve out the game with a superb ace , and remain a break up .
a couple of loose shots from djokovic allow dimitrov to open up a 30-0 lead , but the world number two gets himself back into contention with a well-timed volley close into the net , while a couple of backhand errors from the bulgarian allow djokovic to clinch the game .
nishikori certainly has the backing of the crowd , with plenty of his natives surrounding court 13. after netting for 15-15 , he responds with an ace and a one-two off his serve to conclude a simple hold .
he finishes the game off with another . this time on his second serve !
just brilliant from goffin . he 's half-way to the net and plants a sliced drop-shot right on the line which djokovic , one of the fastest players out there , can not control . then he wins the game with a big baseline shot that beats the volley of the serb .
federer loses the first point on serve , but takes the next two to move 30-15 ahead . djokovic responds with a passing forehand , however , to leave the score at 30-30 on the federer serve . another powerful serve moves federer 40-30 ahead and the swiss holds with an ace .
djokovic breaks ! the serb comes from behind to win the game to 40 , as del potro scoops an unpleasant drop-shot attempt into the net at shin height . the writing is on the wall .
a dinked volley and overhit return from stakhovskky mean that we remain on serve in the opening set .
can tsonga pull this back ? cilic does not think so as he bruises past his opponent with the perfect service game . not a blemish on the croatian during that one ...
djokovic looks so sharp in the early stages and murray is lucky to survive after the world number one goes for a tad too much on a lob with murray beaten . murray then catches the line with a forehand to move to 30-0 before djokovic goes long with a backhand . murray seals the hold to love by outlasting djokovic from the baseline and it 's a phenomenal start to the second stage of this match .
monfils is well and truly alive in this match as he gets a set on the board in emphatic fashion . he may trail 2-1 in sets but the momentum is with the erratic frenchman .
a second ace wins wawrinka the first point , but he has to dig deep to take the second , overturning a rally that falla had dominated to force his opponent to net . another ace follows , before falla dumps another shot into the net .
a sense of disappointment fills court one as klizan spurs two break-point chances and perhaps his last chance of success this afternoon . berdych kept things simple on serve and eventually got his reward , with his opponent 's game littered with too many errors to succeed at this level . klizan will now have to regroup as he serves to stay in the match .
i mentioned the importance of cheap points earlier . nadal has just won four of them to hold to love . djokovic will now serve to stay in the set .
nadal snatches the first two points for the game , but a superbly-placed ace gets klizan back in the game , before nadal fires the ball long . nadal eventually earns a match point but klizan saves , before finding two big serves to clinch the game . great resilience from the slovakian .
baghdatis dips deep to earn himself a pair of break points , some great cross-court stroke forcing ferrer into a mistake . a strong serve saves the first break point , before winning a 27-stroke rally , the longest of the match so far . ferrer takes advantage before baghdatis puts a return long , throwing away his chance to get the set back on serve .
he does ! a bold drop shot at deuce earned him game point and this time he comes through with a serve right on the line that djokovic ca n't get back .
meanwhile , isner gets himself on the board in set three with a love-service game .
muller might not be testing the djokovic serve yet , but he 's looking increasingly comfortable during his own service games . he keeps djokovic off the board , picking up the edges of the court with some powerful deliveries to force four out returns in a row from the world number one .
he battles and never gives up the spaniard . his accuracy and power is just shining through now as he scrapes what is probably a decisive break .
nadal finds himself out of position following brands ' return but somehow the world number four manages to scoop the ball up from his feet and pick out the sideline . the shot seems to rally brands who forces a break point , but a well-placed serve from nadal is too good for the german to return , and he manages to find another good couple of serves to hold serve . nadal is starting to look a bit shaky , having been so strong at the start of this third set .
nadal holds comfortably enough to 30 to get on the board in this set . it 's been a while since rosol has had much joy on nadal 's serve .
a fairly tame return finds the net for cilic first up , and he is under the cosh straight after as djokovic forces him too deep on the baseline to make the return . novak perhaps tries a little too hard with a forehand across the court , although he finishes things next with strong second service .
hewitt holds his serve comfortably . the veteran champion looks in good shape , chasing down shots and hitting winners of the back foot .
nother comfortable hold from the world number one , who is yet to face a break point yet . it 's just a hunch , but i think that could continue for the remainder of the match .
kyrgios pulls off a couple of brilliant returns to take the game with 30-30 , but he fires long on the net point before nadal picked out the sideline to seal the game .
uh oh ! murray dumps the first point into the net , before doing the same with a simple backhand volley at the net . 0-30 soon becomes 0-40 after he rushes an approach shot . three break points to wawrinka , and he takes it on the first after letting loose with a backhand . this is n't looking good for the defending champion .
ferrer comes out on top from a superb exchange at the net . a poor drop shot attempt from the ukrainian brings up deuce , but he forces advantage with a big serve . ferrer takes is back to deuce with a brilliant cross-court backhand , just picking out the sideline . a solid return next time around gives ferrer a break point , but dolgopolov risks it on second serve , catching his opponent out . ferrer gets another chance to break though , and gets it when his opponent blasts the ball into the net . ferrer will serve to take the match to a fifth and final set .
murray starts with a backhand winner , but federer forces him into a couple of errors at the back of the court . it 's been an aggressive start from murray , but he just misses with a cross-court backhand . federer completes the game with an ace . intriguing start .
what has tsonga got left ? if that game is anything to go by , then he has plenty ! a hold to love with a couple of aces gets the frenchman the early advantage in the third .
ferrer breaks : tsonga comes up with a horrible double-fault to gift ferrer his fourth break of the evening .
the opening four points are shared , leaving robredo with a couple of important points to hold , but he does so after wawrinka goes for too much on a backhand down the line .
dodig hits a forehand winner on the line . great shot .
haase finally does get one of the breaks back . he only needed one in that game though as opposed to his five attempts last time . game on !
a routine service game from berdych ensures himself at least a tie-break . could it get even better on murray 's serve ?
murray finds another two aces , taking his total for the match to 21. federer is clearly on the attack , but there 's little he can do when murray serves this well . the scot is just one game away from the final .
it 's an impressive start to the game from berdych , who follows a winner with an effective second serve . a comfortable one-two brings up three game points but he stops his streak of points on serve with a double fault . a second successive double fault follows , and all of a sudden , it 's 40-30. he then sends a forehand wide of the line and murray has deuce , and that becomes break point when murray makes a second-serve return . it 's such a gutsy reply from berdych though , who catches the line with a forehand . the confidence is back with the czech and but murray brings up another break point with a forehand winner . the next point is enthralling , but murray hits a stunning forehand winner down the line and is reaction is telling . he 's in full-on street-fighter mode .
nadal holds to love .
that was incredible stuff , but murray needs to stay on top of this . the errors are coming from federer now , and he sends two horrendous shots off target . however , murray does the same when attempting a forehand passing shot for 15-40 ! it 's 30-30 , and it 's federer who gets to game point when murray goes wide . the game is sealed with a drop-shot and federer needed that .
an impressive forehand shot gives gasquet a 30-0 lead on federer 's serve , but the swiss responds and levels with two forced errors from his opponent . a smash at the net nudges federer in front for the first time in the game , only for a forehand winner attempt to hit the alley and bring deuce . federer takes advantage as gasquet struggles to respond to his service , before the game is completed with another error . a test for federer this game , but he 's found his way through it .
federer begins things in super fast succession and displays a wonderful ace on his way to 40-0. he then goes on further by delivering another standout ace to seal the game . well , that was done and dusted rather quickly ...
federer stays in touch with a comfortable service game . it 's amazing to think that he has n't broken his opponent 's serve today , squandering six chances to do so .
that 's a big , big hold from muzza . janowicz has had six break points and not taken a single one !
once again , nadal quickly and ruthlessly extinguishes his opponent 's hopes of a break . his forehand comes good as he holds to 40 .
the pair get into a long rally , exchanging shots from the baseline , but bautista agut goes for a drop shot , forcing ferrer to rush into the net , and the 25-year-old wins the point with a smash into the open court . at deuce , ferrer brings up a break point with a lob to the back of the court , but bautista agut manages to save . the world number 60 wins advantage when ferrer 's forehand creeps wide , and bautista agut holds serve when ferrer forces the ball wide again .
simon does n't start well when he fires into the net returning on his own serve . his next one is n't that great either and gives federer the chance to score with a destructive forehand that takes away all of simon 's space . a short rally is ended when federer drags out wide , but federer is presented with break point when he cuts long to get simon in all kinds of trouble . federer breaks at the vital moment as simon skews wide . huge moment in the contest ...
all too easy on serve in that game for berdych , who holds to love for the second successive game thanks to clinical hitting at the baseline . tomic is in fairness attacking his shots , but has so far failed to make any inroads on the seventh seed 's serve .
sousa is given some hope when djokovic makes his second double fault of the match before he catches the serb out with a trick volley to bring up deuce . the second seed has to face his first break point of the third set when the world number 44 hits a superb forehand , but he saves it with some smart play at the net . however , sousa is n't going down without fight , and he makes a pair of fantastic forehands to get a game back .
murray is continuing to hit some sublime winners , but djokovic is the more efficient right now and he sweeps to 40-15. murray hits back with a backhand return winner that catches the line and deuce is brought up when djokovic misses a difficult smash . it 's a quick turnaround in this game as djokovic goes wide with a forehand and it 's a break point for murray . the next point is captivating but murray 's will is broken first and djokovic survives . the scot creates another opening with a passing forehand winner but he wastes it by thrashing a forehand into the net . djokovic earns game point with the craziest reactions on the baseline to catch murray 's baseline and he holds onto his advantage when murray nets . that could be a huge game in to the context of the match .
nadal leaves kyrgios 's first return , expecting it to go long , but he judges it wrong as the ball clips the line , but nadal quickly levels with a volley close into the net . kyrgios hits a fantastic forehand from the baseline to give himself another break point , but nadal changes up hit shot selection with a couple of efforts from the net again to keep the set level .
murray takes the opening point of the match when becker goes long , before the scot nets a forehand . the german has started really well , and he takes the initiative with a booming forehand down the line . murray receives a let-off when becker fails to return a second serve , but he brings up break point after an error from the scot . however , that is promptly saved , and murray comes through the game . impressive from becker , though .
djokovic loses out with a rush that sees federer cut him in two with a backhand pass down the line . federer gives up the lead when trying to smash across the court , soon leaving djokovic to move in front at 30-15 with a wonderful ace , but federer is produced with break point after a couple of errors . he ca n't quite take the chance as novak brings back deuce , before roger goes back in front with a smart rush at the net . more resistance from novak who lands an ace and federer comes up short with a poor return . djokovic holds his serve with a fantastic ace .
the number three seed gets his ace count up-and-running , before mayer steps into a weak second serve to level the game . murray edges the next exchange with a forehand into the open court , before his second ace of the game takes him to 40-15. the scot makes an error on the next point , but he makes it 3-3 when mayer slices the ball into the net .
well , maybe not so encouraging . a double fault from tsonga helps djokovic get to 0-30 , but the frenchman shows a fine touch at the net on the way to getting back to 30-30. tsonga has the momentum and a crunching forehand winner sees him hold serve . a huge hold of serve at that .
federer takes another easy hold , tsonga offering up little resistence . it 's impossible to tell who will win this match at the moment .
better from berdych at the start of the fourth set . the czech takes a 40-15 lead with a stunning smash , before repeating the shot at the net to take the game .
novak pushes further in front when federer concedes the error , with an ace then applying extra pressure at 30-0. roger comes back into things when djokovic finds the net , before pulling out a strong forehand to regain control . a poor return into the net allows djokovic to take the fourth game . rain drops coming ...
ferrer breaks : this set is effectively over already as ferrer breaks to 30. tsonga needs to settle down before the start of the next . he looks full of adrenaline .
another easy service game for tipsarevic , rounded off with an ace .
a thoroughly entertaining first set continues as nadal edges a quality exchange of volleys at the net , with a brave dive from darcis not enough to stop nadal taking his fourth service game . the crowd on court one are really enjoying this first set , with nadal being matched all the way by the belgian underdog .
wow ! what a way to get out of trouble from murray with powerful serve . pressure back on djokovic .
game , set & match ! great placement allows novak to open up the court and stretch cilic deep and wide with a forehand . the croatian tries something too cheeky from the baseline and he then falls further behind at 30-0. a backhand volley over the net on the spin from novak produces something magical for the cameras , and he then seals easy progression after a long , looping error return from cilic . that was a true masterclass from novak , stunning stuff on ashe ...
the spaniard comes through another tough examination on serve by hitting a backhand winner at advantage . can he now trouble murray 's service ?
it 's tsonga who edges ahead in the third . he ca n't seem to find a consistent level at the moment - it 's either really good or quite shocking !
this signs look ominous for devvarman now as he loses ground early in the fourth . janowicz has built up a head of steam now . it was a fantastic point by the pole , very well constructed . his forehand is a frightening piece of weaponry .
simon does n't have the most powerful serve in the game but he sure is accurate as he sends his delivery down the centre line for his first ace of the match . he gets the better of djokovic in a lengthy rally before the serb fires his return long on the next point to give simon the game .
fine hold from del potro there . he wraps up a love-hold with a blas backhand winner up the line .
ferrer is really starting to motor now . he rips a couple of backhand winners before tipsarevic hits the net to give the spaniard the break .
there 's a feeling that becker is probably playing at a level where he is n't going to get much better , and probably wo n't last for the entire match . murray is much more solid during this love-service game , taking control of each point . interesting moment there with the nadal score being shown to centre court . murray also saw , but gave no reaction whatsoever .
that 's a lovely rally for the last point ! goffin races forward to scoop a drop shot back over the net , and djokovic returns it right where it came from with the belgian only finding the net with his response . great tennis from both men .
three uncharacteristic backhand mistakes from wawrinka give nishikori three break points and the japanese converts one at the first time of asking with a volley . wawrinka 's intensity has dropped off since the changeover .
again it is impressive tennis from both players in the opening two points , with the second going to golubev following a brilliant volley . murray then produces an ace to move 30-15 ahead , before golubev fires wide . murray secures the hold when golubev clips wide from a deep position .
can golubev avoid a first-set bagel ? it 's looking doubtful when dumping the ball into the net on the first point , but he manages to get himself to 30-30 after a couple of errors from the world number one . however , the kazakh player goes long with a backhand and it 's set point to djokovic , who takes his chance by thundering a backhand down the line . that set took 24 minutes ...
still no sign of a break as malisse holds to-love yet again . he 's only lost three points on serve in this set , the belgian .
the scot holds serve from 0-30 down .
is nadal feeling the nerves ? he falls to 15-30 before dropping him a 76mph second serve , but djokovic fails to take advantage and dumps the ball into the net . he is n't best pleased . two more returns of serve miss their intended targets and nadal holds .
federer is also having problems getting his first serve in , and murray takes full advantage , bringing up a break point . a couple of great returns from the scot result in federer forcing the ball long , giving the third seed the early advantage in this final set .
after quickly building a 40-0 lead benneteau 's focus is stopped as he argues with the umpire over a call on his second serve . federer uses the chance to apply pressure with a cheeky drop shot , but the underdog regains composure to ace down the centre to hold serve . if this strong serving continues we may yet see a competitive second set .
no dramas from nadal this time around . the spaniard holds with his sixth love service game of the match .
satellite accurate serving from federer who takes less than two minutes to wrap up his service game . this wo n't take long now .
djokovic makes a quick start to the second set , serving well to force a couple of long returns from simon before the frenchman hands him the game when he fires into the net . it looks like the serb is particularly focused following his first-set win .
while brands ' strong serve is still testing nadal , the pace has gone from his groundstrokes , allowing nadal to take control of the game . at deuce , nadal plays a cross-court forehand to bring up a break point , but he misses the return against brands ' serve to let him off . another mistake from the spaniard give brands advantage , and he fires an ace down the centre of the court to claim the game . nadal really let him off towards the end of that game .
for how competitive this has been , nadal is now cruising . he 's 3-0 up with a serve to go and in truth both monfils 's service games have been comfortable for him .
a loose second serve puts tomic under pressure on serve , falling 15-30 behind . the australian keeps his cool to respond in the next point , sending a low shot just over the net before building an important hold behind a wide first serve .
it 's a routine hold for murray , who moves kyrgios around the court before converting an easy backhand for a 40-0 lead . kyrgios reduces to deficit to two points but he is powerless to prevent murray drilling an ace down the middle .
initially , goffin continues to serve well as he has done throughout much of the third set to open up a 40-0 lead . murray comes in fro the back of the court to get a point back at the net before goffin hits the ball long on the next point . the belgian picks a poor time for another double fault , allowing murray to claw the game back to deuce . murray 's resurgence seems to unsettle goffin as he hits the ball long two points in a row to give murray the game , and the defending champion now has the chance to serve for the match .
haas goes on the offensive to get himself in a good position at 30-15 , but some good serve and volley play from nieminen , followed by a good serve maintains his three-game cushion .
the third starts with a flashy exchange that murray wins with his trademark cross-court forehand . mayer makes it 15-15 , but a second serve has too much spin on it for the german . the 26-year-old is moving through the gears now , caressing a forehand winner on the run past mayer before a one-two off his first serves takes the game . marvelous stuff .
goffin starts confidently with an ace before murray hits back with a couple of powerful shots from the back of the court . murray has a chance for an early break when goffin directs a forehand just wide , but the game heads to deuce following a good serve from the belgian . goffin gets advantage before murray challenges a call on the baseline , but he gets in wrong as goffin 's shot was comfortably in , giving him the game .
a nice show of stubborn resistance from darcis , who holds off a break point with a fierce first serve . a tight , gruelling game reaches its fifth deuce before darcis makes a breakthrough with an overhand smash , with more serve and volley enough to earn a hard-fought hold .
with few issues , djoko wraps up the second set . i ca n't see a way back for stepanek now .
if anybody wants to lose weight for your summer holidays just ask wawrinka to play tennis with you . he 'll have you running around the court for hours . richie is huffing and puffing here and he 's about to blow a gasquet , but he ca n't muster the energy to return the shot ! stan is turning up the heat and turning on the style .
four straight points from djoko after that though and he holds to start the second . on the final point murray pinged a forehand crosscourt that was called out . the scot looks up at the umpire to ask how close it was , deciding not to challenge . he should have done though as hawk-eye shows that it clipped the paint .
inevitably djokovic fights back to claim an important hold . wawrinka showed he still has the stomach for a fight in that game and the crowd clearly appreciate his efforts .
dodig thumps a forehand into the net . deuce .
brands really has found it very hard to attack against nadal 's serve , and it 's the case again this time around , gifting nadal another hold by returning his forehand with a lackluster effort into the net . he 'll need to win the next game to stay in the match .
what a touch - djokovic plays the most immaculate of drop shots from the back of the court - but nadal responds with an aggressive play from the baseline . rafa goes long on the next , but djokovic produces more magic to take the next point with a brutal forehand into the corner . the game is wrapped up with an ace , and while we remain on serve , it 's djokovic who has settled first .
the wind gets involved and murray hits long . oh dear , oh dear ! he 's blown a two-break advantage here . we 're now back on serve , although djokovic is serving to stay in the set . you get the impression the defending champ will be buzzing now though .
that 's more like it . roddick holds thanks to a big , powerful smash . he 's shaking his racket as if to pump himself up and the crowd respond accordingly .
the serb holds comfortably with another forehand winner - his third of the match so far . both men have started well with their serve .
blake is in full swing now and holds comfortably . the home crowd are getting into this one , between hearty bites of hotdog .
murray finally seems to be getting the better of lu during rallies , with the 29-year-old struggling the get the length of his strikes right . at 40-15 , the scot smashes another ace past his opponent to take the game .
djokovic is on the attack early in this game again , but berdych stuns him with a sensational hooked forehand winner from the baseline that lands just on the line , before sealing the game with an ace .
all of a sudden , there is a spring in robredo 's step . he makes a sloppy error at 30-0 , but apart from that , it 's a dominant game from the spaniard , and out of nowhere , wawrinka must serve to force a tie-break .
good hold from the czech again and djokovic is struggling to get into stepanek . it 's the czech who seemingly has more chance of a break - at the moment ..
stan the man holds his serve to move 4-3 ahead . he barely broke sweat in that game , and his deft little lob to move 30-0 ahead was particularly delicious . he 's yet to hit top gear , though , which is ominous for gasquet .
whoosh ! a wonderful forehand from murray brings up game point before he puts it away with an ace . cilic serving for the second set and a 2-0 lead .
djokovic comes through after saving three break points . he 's still to be broken at this year 's tournament . haas should be furious with himself .
the crowd on arthur ashe have been fairly stagnant but i ca n't blame them to be honest . the majority of matches involving isner are borefests but that 's the way he plays tennis and it 's what has got him into the world 's top 10 .
a seemingly reinvigorated djokovic eases into a 30-0 lead , but then sloppiness creeps in as murray draws level at 30 points apiece . however , there is to be no drama on this occasion as the world number one wins the next two points to hold . he 's gone from 2-0 down to 3-2 in front .
advantage gasquet , but only just . he still has to break the wawrinka serve , and that 'll be anything but easy . we 've only seen four breaks of serve in the last 34 games ! as i said , the kids can tuck themselves in .
djokovic takes the lead with a superb forehand smash , before hitting an ace to go 40-15 up over lopez . lopez responds with a backhand winner from the baseline , but the world number one takes the game with a forehand volley that lands beyond the reach of the spaniard .
gasquet replies with a hold to love . he 's on the board finally , and will be looking to at least test tsonga 's serve now . he needs to really , or else this set could get away from him .
petzschner made life difficult for almagro there , but the spaniard whips a forehand right into the corner to hold .
almagro holds thanks to a stinging ace , but the momentum is with his opponent right now .
yep . after a prolonged rally robredo pushes a backhand just long and that 's the second set for the home favourite .
petzschner 's right back in this one now as he breaks the spaniard 's serve to give himself a 3-1 lead in this second set .
murray settles into a rally beautifully and he grinds down pospisil for 0-15 , but the canadian levels things up with an ace , his fifth of the match . some aggressive play at the net earns 30-15 , but murray finds great length from the back of the court to remain in with a shout at 30-30. it 's break point to murray after he wrong-foots pospisil at the net , and it 's taken with a glorious cross-court backhand .
del potro finds a first serve but it 's returned with intent from djokovic . del potro sends the ball out to djokovic 's forehand and he swipes it back to the baseline , with del potro unable to handle it . is that going to be enough for djokovic ? all he has to do now is hold serve twice and he 'll be in the wimbledon final .
murray double faults and that 's the first set that the number two seed has lost at this year 's championships .
you do n't need me to tell you what has just happened ! another hold . 4-3 foggy .
djokovic goes wide with a cross-court backhand to give nadal 0-15 , but an ace and a one-two off his serve sees him restore order . the pair have the crowd on their feet after a ferocious exchange results in nadal netting from the baseline and the game is sealed when nadal narrowly misses with a forehand down the line . things are warming up .
djokovic starts serving as solidly as he did in the first set , but dimitrov fights back from 40-15 down to deuce , but he misses his forehand twice in a row to allow djokovic to hold serve .
that 's better from golubev , who executes a drop shot into the open court , but back comes djokovic with a forehand winner and an ace . golubev already looks incredibly deflated .
there 's definitely a sense that this one is over , as fognini starts to challenge but then largely hands the game to nadal .
lu is on the back foot early on , as murray gets a superb lob past his opponent . the taiwan player tries to force a backhand winner , but slices it too wide to give murray two break points . the brit wastes the first with a wide forehand , but lu volley to bring up deuce . a poor return from murray gives lu advantage , and he 's able to hold serve by catching the scot out with a drop shot .
the world number two kicks things off with an ace , before producing a neat forehand drop shot to go 30-0 up . federer 's serve looks good , and gasquet twice struggled to return it as the swiss maestro takes the first game .
djokovic is off and running in the second as he holds to 15. his opponent haas to hold serve now to boost his confidence .
lazy returns see stan slip 30-0 behind federer , who then watches wawrinka throw another poor response beyond the baseline to give his opponent three break points . the break arrives when the 30-year-old goes beyond once more . poor from big stan , really poor ...
he 's hitting winners left and right now , the serb , and takes a 4-2 lead with a sweeping forehand on to the line . the momentum has shifted back .
the german is in clinical form now and holds to love to consolidate the previous break .
yep . a good first serve out wide is sliced into the net from murray and djokovic clenches his fist in celebration . that 's a big hold from the world number one .
you feel that nadal has gained the initiative now , and he forces nishikori into a couple of errors of his own . the japanese player saves the first with a superb backhand into the corner of the court , which he repeats with extra venom to take it to deuce . the wind picks up during the next point , and nishikori nets , and nadal breaks when a net cord deceives his opponent .
these boys do n't like giving the crowd much to cheer about as malisse easily holds to-love .
rafa opens with a double fault , but a fine one-two off his serve levels things up . the world number looks as intense as ever , and a curling serve out wide takes him to 40-15. the game is sealed when a weak-looking tomic miscues a return .
nadal breaks : ominous start for harrison as nadal breaks to 30 in game one .
djokovic holds his serve by getting in plenty of first serves and not giving his opponent a look-in .
brutal from wawrinka , who is doing very little wrong off the ground . he gets to 30-0 with a forehand winner before a love hold is completed with a solid serve out wide . big game coming up for federer . he must hold or wawrinka will serve for the match .
you get the impression that kohlschreiber is n't thinking too much about this match so far . he is almost playing on auto-pilot because he is dealing with the pressure really well . he secures a love service-hold of his own to level up the set .
brands makes an aggressive start to the match , beating nadal with a forehand down the sideline . nadal struggled a little with his serve , finding the net three times , but his quick footwork ensures that he is comfortably able to hold his serve .
a lucky collision with the net chord and a stunning ace help federer to another easy hold . raonic will now be serving to take the second set to a tiebreak .
djokovic is straight into his baseline hitting . goffin , perhaps without the power , is finding his range early on , but does not have much of an answer in the rallies to begin with . it 's a rather processional opening service game hold from the world number one .
tipsarevic holds but ferrer made it very difficult for him there . the fourth seed ran around some kind of wind-up toy on the last point , not giving anything up until he hit the net .
more confident play on serve helps darcis level the match early in the first set , with the belgian quick to take his chance at the net after a strong first serve . you sense that nadal is just easing into the tournament here , giving darcis the chance to build some confidence with some efficient shot selection .
chardy breaks right back . delpo just does n't look himself out on hisense . he double faults at a the crucial moment , just as the frenchman did in the game previously .
stepanek picks up his second ace of the match but loses out on the next point following a spectacular rally of shots at the net . at deuce , stepanek fires down the line before djokovic sends his forehand long . the top seed will now be serving to stay in the set .
second set djokovic : the serb brings about another game point with his 13th second-set winner . he then seals the set by forcing a forehand error out of sousa .
not too much trouble for djokovic on his serve there and stepanek has n't had a break point for quite a while . i feel this will go with serve until djokovic decides to change that .
the pole consolidates the break , but had a bit of trouble in doing so .
a pleasant start for the spaniard as he holds to 15. not great from murray but he 's bound to improve those groundstrokes .
too good djokovic . he sends istomin the wrong way for 40-0 and then wraps up the set on his first set point with a sweeping forehand into the corner . the serbian double is very much on , barring one of the most surprising comebacks tennis will have ever seen .
federer wastes no time in building a 40-0 lead on serve after getting the benefit of a marked call from the umpire . benneteau once again gets praise from the crowd with a forehand winner in the next point , but the strong shot offered only a momentary reprieve . plain sailing continues for federer on serve to level the third set .
djokovic threatened there but he could n't take it and there 's some real signs of frustration from the serb . can he regain his composure with new balls in his hand to serve ?
djokovic attempts to serve and volley in the opening point , but he can only find the net from close range . however , he moves onto the board moments later with a stunning drop shot , before a powerful forehand moves him 30-15 ahead . nadal fires long moments later to hand djokovic game point - which is indeed taken .
that 's a straightforward hold from djokovic and he 's underway well in the third .
murray needs to find a consistently high level to have any chance in this match and a couple of solid points help him to 40-15. however , a short second serve is given the treatment by dimitrov and the bulgarian has deuce when murray nets . all of a sudden , murray looks rattled and dimitrov has break point when he goes wide with a backhand . the game is gifted to dimitrov when murray concedes a double fault , and the defending champion is two games away from exiting wimbledon .
that 's a fine start from nishikori , coming out on top in the first rally of the match , before moving to 40-15 with a couple of winners . he nets on the next point , but a crunching backhand helps him to the first game of the match .
nadal may not have secured a second break yet , but he 's looking untouchable during his service games , forcing mistakes from his opponent .
tsonga forces gulbis to serve out the set as he holds serve on what is now a sunny centre court .
very strong serving from reynolds just about keeps the american alive , earning a game to love with sublime variety , particularly at the net .
there 's a somewhat inevitable feeling to this match now as federer goes two breaks up in the third set . the players shared the opening four point before the swiss 's impressive performance at the net gave him another break point . lacko came in from the baseline to try to smash the small past his opponent , but he mis-hit the shot , resulting in it striking the net chord before bouncing well wide .
nadal breaks : nadal takes control of the point immediately by attacking a tame second serve . djokovic is forced to go for broke and his all-or-nothing cross-court drive lands just wide .
wawrinka moves to two points away from the set with a crushing forehand winner but federer registers successive points to stop his opponent in his tracks . wawrinka remains on the offensive though , and he creates a set point when federer fires a routine forehand into the net . a smart second serve helps gets federer out of trouble and wawrinka will have to serve to take a one-set lead .
is there a finer shot in the game than almagro 's one-handed backhand ? he sweeps the ball down the line with the nonchalance of a man swatting away a fly and gives himself the hold . beautiful .
this is rather bizarre . kyrgios is playing at three quarters his usual power but he is able to bring up a break point after murray makes a couple of glaring errors . the australian seals the game with a venomous forehand winner from the back of the court and he has a cushion in this set .
it 's wild from djokovic in the opening point as he thumps a volley wide to hand nadal the lead , before another wild swing leaves the spaniard 0-30 ahead . that becomes 0-40 in the next point as the world number one nets following good approach work from nadal . djokovic saves the first break point with a serve and volley , before the net helps him claw back to 30-40. nadal does break at the third time of asking , however , with a stunning forehand down the line .
ferrer tries to beat nadal with a drop shot , but the reigning champion is quick enough to get to the net , but his looping return is just inches wide . desperate to avoid a double fault , ferrer sends down a very cautious second serve , allowing nadal to get on the attack , but he goes for too much power and fires the ball long , but a cross-court forehand takes the game to deuce . ferrer brilliantly lands the ball on the sideline to bring up advantage , but nadal keeps the game alive by winning a badminton-esque exchange of close-range volleys . nadal forces advantage twice to bring up break points , but ferrer manages to save both before finding some punchy forehand shots to hold serve .
and the spaniard manages it . have to say , murray looked a player there that is solely concentrating on holding his own serve having already gained a break .
federer has yet to create a break point on the nadal serve , and that continues in this game . it 's no surprise when nadal is hitting backhand winners at will , and his ninth comes in this game . federer has n't hit a single one . a love hold is sealed with an ace .
tsonga 's done the first part . now he 's got to break again . if he manages it , surely he will go on to win this one .
kyrgios opens with a double fault but his touch is superb for a player who is known for his power and he gets to 30-15 with a drop shot and a lob . it 's murray 's turn to show the technical side of his game to reach break point , but kyrgios saves it with a thunderous forehand winner into the corner . murray gets a second opening though , and on this occasion , he nails a backhand down the line to edge in front .
`` game djokovic , '' as haas lashes a backhand past the baseline . are we headed to a third-set tie-break ?
it 's a perfect start for federer , keeping raonic off the score board against his serve , and he manages to find an ace as well .
a lazy federer return and an ace out wide from wawrinka sees the younger of the two swiss get to 40-15 , and he seals the game with one of the best backhand winners that you will ever see .
that shaky first game is a distant memory as federer makes claims his 12th successive point and with it the opening set in just 28 minutes . it was noticeable as benneteau wilted in that last game just how much the frenchman was struggling to move , which does not bode well when you are facing the second seed !
nadal is incredibly strong behind his serve , though . it 's 40-0 after monfils tries to force the issue with a big forehand but goes long . rafa wins the game but is now limping at the change of ends . this would be an awful way for the contest to end , but hopefully he 'll be alright .
murray takes the opening point when djokovic wilts first during a baseline rally before the scot executes a sublime drop shot to extend his lead . murray creates three game points but djokovic remains alive with a drive volley into the corner . murray responds with an ace out wide to stay in the match .
simple stuff from djokovic there as he holds economically .
robredo catches ferrer out early on with a superb backhand down the sideline , which his ever-athletic opponent could n't reach in time . after some missed first serves , ferrer manages to find his rhythm towards the end of the game , giving him another comfortable hold of serve .
ferrer comes into the net to attack , but bautista agut manages to get himself into position to make the return . the fourth seed goes for another volley , but hits the ball into the net . bautista agut tries to seal the game with a sliced backhand , but the ball goes just wide . he then makes the first double fault of the match , but lands his forehand right on the sideline to secure the game .
federer claims the first point of the second game when djokovic fails to return a powerful serve , before the serbian fires a running forehand wide for 30-0. federer has the chance to make it 40-0 after coming to the net , but djokovic fires one past the swiss for 30-15. a stunning rally then allows djokovic to move level at 30-30 when he drops one short . federer responds in the next point , but djokovic levels it at deuce following a fine return . another wide serve allows federer to gain advantage and he then secures the hold with a powerful serve .
nadal is happy to meet power with power from the back of the court , and it 's enough for him to move 30-0 ahead , but the advantage is halved when he concedes a double fault . rosol is really going for it on the return of serve , and he gets to 40-30 , before nadal plays a one-two off his serve to take the game .
good early signs for djokovic as , despite failing to make first serves during the opening two points , he wins two lengthy rallies to lead 30-0 .
nishikori has started to look disheartened after more faultless serving from his opponent , who romps to a love hold . nishikori needs to find some kind of response or else the defending champion will be two sets ahead in little over an hour .
that 's how to serve after a break . great work from murray , who opens up a 2-0 lead in this second set thanks to an ace . djokovic looks completely shattered right now , but as we 've seen so often from the serb , he has the ability to somehow respond when the odds are stacked firmly against him .
nice , easy love-hold from anderson to begin the third set . the giant south african faces a mighty task to get back into this one .
djokovic must be fuming at dropping his serve for the first time at the championships and he 's just menacingly held to love .
the frenchman 's cross-court backhand is a clear weak spot . most of the last few attempts have ended in the net . however , he responds with an unbelievable backhand down the line , with djokovic doing the same on the very next return . then it 's superb from both men as mathieu returns what looked a certain winner down the line on his forehand side .
a superb forehand from haas just clipped the sideline at 15-15 to put haas up , but nieminen battles back , and completes the game with an ace .
tsonga holds to 40 .
disappointing start to the game for djokovic as he hits the net to hand nadal the advantage , before a double fault allows nadal to move 0-30 ahead . djokovic 's struggles continue as he fires wide following a nadal forehand - handing nadal three break-back points . he saves the first of those with a wonderful reach , before nadal nets to leave the score at 30-40. the spaniard takes the third opportunity , however , as djokovic fires long .
the easiest hold in quite some time for djokovic puts huge pressure on wawrinka . just a reminder than in the fifth set you must win by two clear games to claim the match .
the momentum is very much with fognini now . he holds to love quite easily . meanwhile , the crowd get going , trying to urge roddick on as he prepares to serve .
robredo fights his way to 30-30 , but he gets no luck when a wawrinka backhand clips the net and goes over . it gives the swiss the initiative and he seals the game with a forehand cross-court .
set djokovic ! a really powerful forehand serve is as good as it gets for lacko in that game as djokovic wraps up the first in just 30 minutes .
wawrinka looks nervy when blazing a forehand wide but he responds with the shot of the match . djokovic majestically flicked a forehand over the net but the swiss replies with a cross-court half drop-volley ( if that 's a shot ? ) that left his opponent floundering . wawrinka brings up two game points before conceding one of them with a double fault . he wastes the second by hooking a forehand long , and all of a sudden , djokovic has a sniff of the set . he earns a set point when outfoxing the swiss from inside the court , and the defending champion capitulates by dumping a forehand into the net .
a routine hold and with less than hour played wawrinka is a set and 4-1 ahead . djokovic will need a huge turnaround to keep his title defence alive .
it has suddenly got very windy out there and nadal is dealing with it much better . that said , a couple of nice shots sees the italian go 15-30 up . a booming forehand wins him two break points and oh dear ! what a chance with a volley for fognini to break , but he can not get it over the net . stunning from nadal to save the second - he kept getting it on his backhand but finally got the power to force the net shot from fognini . it was n't easy , but nadal does enough to take the set and surely that is that ?
federer moves 0-15 ahead when djokovic fires a forehand long , but federer then hits the net for 15-15 following an incredible rally . djokovic has the chance to move ahead after coming to the net in the next point , but he puts a forehand long to hand federer 15-30. djokovic responds with an ace , however , before producing another brilliant serve for 40-30. djokovic secures the hold with his second ace of the game .
stakhovsky shows how to close it out with a pair of big serves . federer not bringing his a-game here .
we 're heading into a breaker ! have to say that at this moment djokovic is forcing murray to do a lot of work , but the world number four is holding on .
that was the longest game of the match and another real test of wawrinka 's serve , but once more he 's just about up to it . djokovic just can not get that break .
a rare double fault from federer sees him fall 0-15 behind , but he remains composed to put away a high smash . a forehand error concedes 15-30 , but he survives when murray just misses with a passing shot . we are at 30-30 , which becomes game point to federer when murray nets a return . federer takes the game when he goes marginally long with a backhand , and it 's those small margins that see the swiss hold the lead in the set and match .
djokovic gets it after messing up his first two set points . dimitrov secured deuce after a stretch the keep the game alive on the tramline leading to djokovic volleying a simple return out . however he manages to take the advantage before securing the set .
it 's now tsonga 's turn to make the error as he hits his forehand wide . klizan is just a game away from one of the shocks of the tournament so far .
like in the previous federer service game , he races to 40-0 before making an error . it 's just a minor blip though , and a powerful forehand winner from the baseline sees him hold serve .
cilic 's return is long to push tsonga into an early lead , and he then marches on with a killer ace at 125mph , followed by more strong service work . easy from the frenchman !
break back ! as in the first set when djokovic claimed a break , simon manages to get the break back straight away . the top seed makes a backhand volley mistake to give the frenchman the lead before another couple of mistakes on the backhand allow simon to get the set back on serve . the players have a break for drinks at the end of the game , and djokovic buries his head under the towel .
if wawrinka is nervous out there , he 's not showing it . we often talk about his backhand , but it was his forehand that guided him through that game . he 's standing on the baseline and is refusing to drop any deeper at the moment . as a result , he 's dictating the points on his serve and there is no sign of nadal making any inroads just yet .
berdych breaks ! berdych secures a double break by taking game 20 to 30. he will now serve for a two-set lead .
before the start of the game , djokovic had lost just five points on his serve in two sets , and while that figure has now moved to six , he eases to another service success with three cleverly-worked backhands down the line .
ferrer makes a nervous start with a double fault , but hits back with an ace , before placing a stunning forehand shot on the sideline . robredo looks to utilise his backhand , but pulls his effort wide allowing ferrer to claim the opening game with a backhand to the right-hand side of the court .
wow ! federer plays a sensational drop-shot to repel murray 's excellent defensive work , before the swiss moves the scot around the court to force a mistake on the lob . the swiss then thunders a huge forehand winner into the corner for three set points . that brought a roar from federer . the set is sealed when murray misses with a return . this is going to be tough for the wimbledon champion . federer is relentless .
another game , another hold for djokovic , and it is another routine one too . he races into a 40-0 lead before hitting a wonderful backhand cross-court effort to seal a love game . not a bad response to having been on the wrong end of a love game in the last one .
tsonga holds to 30. he is still serving at just 50 % , but , on this occasion , he is able to get the job done behind his second serve .
robredo secures a hold to 15 with an ace out wide . he needs a few more of them ! it appears as though the rain is n't a factor now ... fingers crossed .
djokovic brings up two more break point as he looks to regain the advantage in the fourth set , capitalising on a couple of errors from the 11th seed . however , dimitrov brings up deuce with an ace before hitting a volley past the serb and sealing the game with another ace . that was a big hold for the 23-year-old .
berdych uses his first challenge of the match to question a call at the baseline , with the czech player proved right to close out a hold he scarcely deserved . klizan is simply unable to step inside and catch a first serve with any conviction , allowing berdych to earn cheap points and maintain his hold on the match .
injured or not , you 've got to take your chances against nadal and wawrinka is n't doing that right now . he had two break points at 15-40 up , but once again the unforced errors crept in as nadal clawed back to deuce . after that he was able to serve out to level up the fourth set at one game apiece . more chances bite the dust for wawrinka , who is getting angry at himself .
when rosol plays tennis , there is n't a whole lot of subtlety about his game . time after time , he is winding up his forehand , but so far , he is n't finding the desired target . nadal holds to 15 .
sousa showing few nerves early on , and even gets to the net for a serve and volley point . it 's a battle on nearly every point but sousa takes the opener ; good start for him .
just as i thought , djokovic turned on the style at the end of the set and broke easily . it 's as if he took it easy until he needed to up his game . that 's probably exactly what he did .
berdych gets his first game on the board by holding to 30 .
the 20-year-old stays within a single break after keeping things simple with a strong showing on serve . berdych looked content to take his foot off the pedal in that one , saving his energy for service games at this stage .
what a start from wawrinka . a winner off either side , plus a composed volley at the net . it 's a hold to love for the swiss .
murray constructs a fantastic point to go 0-15 ahead , but berdych finds one of his biggest serves of the match to level things up . an excellent second serve sets up the easy forehand winner for berdych , but murray replies with a smart forehand down the line . it 's 30-30 , but berdych ties murray up with a second serve to the body before sealing the game with a drive volley . important hold there .
lacko has his first comfortable service game in quite some time , quickly opening up a 40-0 lead . federer tried to test him , getting a point back with another good volley , but lacko holds his nerve to take the game .
klizan continues to cause nadal problems as another powerful forehand moves the slovakian onto the board at 30-15. klizan then fires long , however , to leave nadal 40-15 ahead , before the hold is secured with a powerful serve .
positive start to the opening game of the second set for djokovic as the serbian forces nadal to fire long for 15-0. however , a slip contributes to nadal moving level moments later . the spaniard again fires long moments later to leave djokovic 30-15 ahead , but the world number one follows suit in the next point . djokovic does manage to hold , however , with a couple of well-placed backhands .
a much quicker game this time , djokovic easily taking his service game . he 's now just one game away from the third round .
two big first serves down the middle see berdych ease into a 40-0 lead , but like in the last game , berdych concedes a double fault . berdych takes the game though after murray nets a drop shot . big game coming up .
murray getting pushed around a little bit in that last game as sousa looks to boss his own serve . however , it 's the same result as murray finishes the game well to storm 3-0 ahead . he owes a lot to a terrible volley from the portuguese at the end there that went long .
simon fires an ace past his opponent at the star of the game before forcing forehand and backhand errors from the top seed to comfortably take the game and consolidate his break . it really has been an impressive start to the third set by the frenchman , who could have easily let his head drop after losing the second set .
federer begins his service game with a forehand winner , before murray just fires wide with a forehand on the run . a tame return from murray gifts his opponent three game points , and a forehand winner seals the love hold . time for murray to serve again ...
ferrer holds but his run at the us open looks to be nearing its end as djokovic will serve for a place in tomorrow 's final against andy murray .
stunning tennis from both players in the opening point of the game as djokovic lobs nadal with a stunning slice , before nadal slips at the vital moment to hand his opponent a 0-30 lead . that becomes 0-40 as the spaniard can only hit the net once more , but nadal moves onto the board moments later with a powerful forehand , before djokovic nets following a 21-shot rally . nadal saves the last of the three break points with an ace to leave the game level at deuce , before holding with a powerful volley .
tipsarevic races through his service game to put the pressure back on hewitt . some big serves and some big forehands prove to much for the australian .
murray wastes the first by hitting into the net .
gasquet holds to force tsonga to serve for the set .
in the opening 38 minutes of this match , it has been the federer of old . if he continues like this , it 's going to be an uphill task for tsonga . federer holds comfortably to 15 .
normal order restored ? wawrinka blasts his way to four points in a row , and we are into a tie-break . crucial time in the match ...
more dominance from djokovic on his serve , following a drop-shot winner with another ace for 40-0. haas attempts a drop shot of his own , but he has n't got an answer to the world number one 's serve at the moment .
tsonga tries to outhit federer from the baseline , but the second seed to too strong , and is easily able to hold his first service game of the match .
like in first service game , murray coasts into a 30-0 advantage before a first serve proves too hot to handle . murray has three game points , but he misses a relatively easy forehand to keep pospisil in the game . arguably his worst second serve in his career takes the score to 40-30 , but he eventually takes the game with a big serve down the middle .
looks like raonic will have to serve out the first set himself after blake comfortably holds .
murray is in full control back on his serve . some soft-ball control allows him to take a 40-0 before an ace gives him the game . we 're into the tie-break now ...
adroit manoeuvring from kyrgios leaves him ahead at 30-15. a fantastic defence from murray allows him to climb back on level terms after staving off an intense rally . the aussie 's serve is too strong for murray this time and his reply does n't make it over the middle . deuce is reached when kyrgios fires out the back of the court , before murray gets the chance at a break point as he lashes past his on-rushing opponent . murray seals the break when kyrgios sends a return into the net . the british number one is now serving for a place in the final ...
great composure from wawrinka to hang on and hold under intense pressure . djokovic must now serve to stay in the second set .
federer takes his ace count into double figures , but murray replies with a stunning forehand winner after the point of the match so far . federer successfully overturns a out-call on a first serve to regain the lead before murray fires a forehand long . the scot stays in the game with a forehand into the corner that federer ca n't handle , but the swiss takes the game when murray sends a return wide .
there 's a big shake of the head from djokovic as he finds the net to put murray 15-30 up . a chance for murray to claim that break of serve back perhaps ? you bet ! in the next point , djokovic goes for the serve-volley , but murray sees him coming and sends a forehand shot just out of reach to bring up two break points . the first goes long and the second wide - deuce . however , he keeps knocking at the door and two net shots from djokovic bring up the break . good stuff from murray .
however , he has n't been disheartened here . it initially looks as though he is as djokovic races 0-40 ahead , but some big serves including an ace saves all three break points . at advantage , he plays a lovely drop shot but djokovic is there and the serb wins the point when goffin overcooks a volley into the net . it 's a big hold for the belgian , who manages to cling on after seven minutes .
the second seed gets it done at the fifth time of asking as youzhny 's return slaps the tape and looks like it might pop over but does n't .
he 's finally got himself a game on the board , but wawrinka is still struggling out there . he needs to push the restart button to return to how he was playing around 30 or so minutes ago . as for nadal , he seems to have a 'nothing to lose ' attitude about his game , which makes him dangerous . he 's playing an array of shots , wary that he can not get involved in long exchanges .
djokovic pushes hard for an early break in what could be the final set , as the serb makes a sliced backhand and forehand smash to take the game to deuce , but and error gives sousa advantage , and he holds the game when djokovic returns his serve to the net .
impressive response from murray as the scot moves 0-30 ahead after staying in two long rallies with the server . golubev moves onto the board with a straight forehand , but then fires wide to hand murray two break points . the scot secures the break at the first time of asking following a flick of his wrist . murray will serve for the first set .
all of a sudden , murray has a spring in his step . that would n't have anything to do about the nadal result , would it ? the wind is taken out of his sails after a tiring rally , but he comes through the game with a smash at the net .
that disappointment has sharpened nadal 's concentration and he quickly moves into a 0-30 advantage . he misses out on the next point , but djokovic floats a backhand long to give two break-back points to the left-hander . however , nadal seems to be rushing the follow-through with his forehand and two miscues see djokovic get to deuce , and the serbian takes advantage by wrong-footing nadal to bring up set point , which is taken when nadal fails to return a djokovic forehand . we have a match on our hands .
haas ca n't handle djokovic on the baseline so decides to approach the net . his top-spin forehand is n't bad , but djokovic is there and delivers a crosscourt pass that wraps up the second set in 49 minutes .
first point goes to kyrgios as murray struggles on a rally-return , and he 's undone again as the aussie crashes back from a cheeky chip to make it 30-0 , but murray notches two wonderful serves to make bring things level . the scot takes it with an ace winner .
as good as stepanek looks during his own service games , he really has n't been able to test djokovic in this fourth set , as the top seed quickly rattles through another game . stepanek gives away a couple of points with long returns before a forehand winner seals it for djokovic .
the kazakhstan player opens up with an ace , but quickly sends down a double fault to undo the work . the 26-year-old understandably looks a little shaky , and after missing a game point , he dumps a forehand into the net to give djokovic a chance to break . golubev survives , though , after djokovic sends a backhand marginally wide of the sideline . he saves another soon after , but he sees a game point slip by after a stunning backhand return from the world number one . that shakes golubev , and after missing with an easy volley , he is broken after a lovely drop volley from the former champion .
it 's been a while since djokovic got a look in on wawrinka 's serve and that continues here as he holds to love . the world number one is very much second best right now but as long as he holds his own serve , he will back himself to win the major points .
double break ! dear me . haas has been serving so well this year but he 's just given away his serve for a second time , this time to love . is that the first set already over ?
federer tests the ukrainian at the net but he 's up to the challenge and now leads by two sets to one .
dimitrov serves superbly to edge ahead in the second set , with djokovic missing his first three returns , before the 11th seed wraps the game up when djokovic hits his backhand long .
anyway , lu holds serve as well . it 's apparently 40c out there now . i could n't even lie down in that heat , let alone play tennis !
kyrgios takes his unforced error count up to 22 to give murray a sniff at 30-30 , and the scot takes advantage with a cross-court forehand winner to bring up break point . kyrgios proceeds to make his 23rd unforced error , this time off his backhand wing , and murray has the double break .
murray makes a hash of an easy short forehand to bring it back to 30-30 but wins the next two to retain his single-break advantage in the first set .
bautista agut falls behind the baseline , helping ferrer to claim the opening two points of the game . a vicious backhand from the fourth seed hits the net , before a big serve from the world number 60 levels the game . ferrer attempts to bring the game to deuce , but fires his forehand long .
it 's a shaky opening from djokovic , who goes long , before a superb passing shot from haas gives him 0-30. the world number one sends down another ace , before stepping in to drive a forehand winner for 30-30. it looks set up for djokovic to earn match point , but two errors in a row hand haas the break . can he find something extra to fight back in this match ?
excellent tennis from the frenchman again . he 's 40-15 up , as usual , before cleverly deceiving wawrinka by hitting it in the opposite direction from which he was travelling . fine shot and he 's two games away from victory ! he needs a break to win it in regulation though .
we have a first-set tie-break after a comfortable hold for raonic . some mega serves put this game to bed quickly , while djokovic must rue that chance two games ago now .
wawrinka was certainly in that game , but djokovic was never really in any trouble so the balls are back with the swiss .
there it is . it was important to hold , but instead he 's been broken to love . he 's had no change from the djokovic serve so far and if that continues he 'll be two sets down .
an ace for ferrer to finish and he holds to love . excellent start with the ball from both men .
this one could be over very soon in fact . cilic hustles at the baseline and finally gets the decisive break .
`` vamooooos ! '' bellows the argentinian as djokovic 's return flashes wide . who would have thought two games ago that djokovic would be serving to stay in the set ?
verdasco hits out and that 's the scot 's first snap of verdasco 's serve in the match . just what the centre court crowd needed .
anyone for a new york bagel ? i fancy that one could be on the menu in set three . nadal is really firing now and , in truth , harrison looks like he is feeling a bit sorry for himself .
klizan dives in for an attempt at a volley , but he does n't get to the net in time . nadal 's increased tempo catches the slovakian out as he fires his next two forehands well long , giving nadal three break points . he takes the game with the next point , as klizan fails to find the baseline with his forehand yet again .
nieminen strikes back . he 's looked weary in the opening few games of this set , so wo n't be keen to let haas force a fifth . some superb returning has haas on the back foot , and he 's powerless to stop the finn .
robredo comes through in strange circumstances . he guessed right from murray 's short forehand and smacked one straight at the scot , who decided to let it go but the ball fell inside the baseline .
this is a really good start with the ball from tsonga . federer just has no answer to the frenchman 's power and tsonga follows up his first love service game with another . he 's comfortably on top so far but , as we all know , he will dip .
williams hits a forehand long to hand sharapova 0-15 , before 0-30 arrives when the russian hits another excellent forehand . an ace cuts the score to 15-30 , before another ace levels it at 30-30. sharapova then nets for 40-30 and williams holds with yet another ace .
a 17th ace brings 3-1 williams .
williams again fires long to allow sharapova back into the tie-break .
sharapova hits a super backhand to move 15-0 ahead , but the russian then leaves a williams forehand , which drops just in for 15-15. sharapova then clips a backhand wide for 15-30 , but 30-30 arrives when williams hits the net . a rash forehand then hands sharapova 40-30 and the russian holds with another excellent backhand . on serve in the second set here .
super forehand from williams as she moves 15-0 ahead , before producing yet another ace for 30-0. another strong serve brings 40-0 and williams holds when sharapova nets .
williams whips a forehand long for 5-4. sharapova back in !
sharapova wins the first point on the williams serve after hitting an excellent drop shot , which the american can not return . the server responds , however , with a measured forehand . an ace then moves williams 30-15 ahead , but 30-30 arrives when williams hits the next point wide . another ace then hands williams 40-30 and she holds when sharapova hits the net .
sharapova whips an excellent forehand past williams to move 0-15 ahead , but the server responds with a powerful forehand of her own . sharapova then kisses the line in the next point for 15-30 , but 30-30 quickly follows . the rain is starting to come down now and play has been stopped here ...
williams has 0-15 when sharapova hits the net , before the russian follows suit in the next point for 0-30. a double-fault then hands williams 0-40 , before sharapova fires long to hand williams another break .
sharapova moves 0-15 ahead with an excellent forehand , before williams hits a routine forehand long for 0-30. williams responds with three sensational serves , however , to simply turn the game around . sharapova has deuce in the next point though , as the russian hits an excellent forehand . eventually williams holds with another super ace . wow , what a hold from the american .
sharapova nets in the first point to hand williams 15-0 , but the american then double-faults for 15-15. williams has 30-15 when sharapova fires another backhand long , but williams then clips one past the baseline for 30-30. the world number one races to the net in the next point to move 40-30 ahead , before hitting a stunning forehand to move 2-0 ahead in games .
sharapova fires just wide of the court to hand williams 0-15 , but 15-15 arrives when williams fires long . williams then nets for 30-15 , before hitting another forehand long to hand sharapova game point . the russian takes it when williams can only drop an overhead wide .
sharapova drops a backhand just wide to hand williams 0-15 , before williams hits a wonderful volley for 0-30. sharapova registers , however , when williams drops a forehand wide . sharapova then nets for 15-40 , but responds with an ace for 30-40. another clever serve brings the score to deuce and sharapova eventually holds with a couple more strong points . game on here !
sharapova nets for 5-3 williams !
sharapova responds with a powerful forehand of her own . wow !
stunning from williams as she sets up championship point with a wonderful forehand .
williams has 15-0 when sharapova hits a forehand wide , but the american then hits another double-fault for 15-15. an excellent forehand then hands williams 30-15 , but sharapova answers straight back following an epic exchange . williams then hits another ace for 40-30 , but deuce arrives following a sharapova backhand . sharapova then nets to hand williams advantage and the american holds with another ace - number 16 for the world number one .
fast start from williams as the american races 0-30 ahead as sharapova nets then fires long . williams then hits a forehand long for 15-30 , before following suit in the next point for 30-30. sharapova then moves onto 40-30 as williams hits a rash forehand wide of the court , but deuce arrives following a stunning forehand from the american . sharapova then hits an ace for advantage , but williams answers back with a super forehand . williams has advantage when sharapova hits a backhand wide and the american breaks when sharapova double-faults . wow .
stunning forehand from williams as she moves 2-1 ahead on serve .
williams hits the net with a forehand for 2-4 .
sharapova hits a wonderful forehand to move 1-0 ahead .
strong start from sharapova as williams nets for 15-0 , before the american hits a forehand long for 30-0. williams responds with a strong forehand , before watching sharapova fire long for 30-30. williams then fires a backhand past sharapova for 30-40 , but the american then fires wide for deuce . williams then nets to hand sharapova advantage , before firing long as sharapova manages to hold .
williams starts with an ace to move 15-0 ahead , before producing another ace for 30-0. a third straight ace then arrives for 40-0 and williams holds with a running forehand .
williams answers back for 1-1 when sharapova nets .
another ace brings williams 15-0 , before sharapova fires wide for 30-0. the server then has 40-0 following another excellent serve and the hold is secured when sharapova fires long . super response from williams , whose eyes narrow as she walks off the court .
sharapova moves 15-0 ahead when williams hits a backhand long , before sharapova fires a forehand past the world number one for 30-0. williams again fires long in the next point for 40-0 , but the server double-faults in the next point for 15-40. sharapova , however , holds with an ace .
williams has 0-15 when she fires a super forehand past sharapova , but williams then slices wide for 15-15. sharapova then hits an excellent forehand to move 30-15 , but the russian then double-faults for 30-30. williams has championship point when sharapova clips a backhand just wide , but the russian saves it with an excellent forehand . williams then nets from close range to hand sharapova advantage and the russian holds when williams fires wide . some save there !
sharapova then nets to hand williams 4-1 .
kirilenko eases into a 30-0 lead , but this error-strewn match continues when the russian fires two baseline shots long . she keeps her composure with a strong serve to create game point , and we have our first hold of the match at the fifth time of asking when azarenka sends the ball into the net .
the crowd begin to get behind kirilenko as she takes the first point , but a couple of heavy shots from azarenka earn her a 30-15 lead . a powerful serve down the t then brings up two game points , but kirilenko hangs tough with two identical backhands down the line for deuce . azarenka then comes out on top after an exhausting rally , and she takes the game when kirilenko ca n't return serve .
kirilenko has apparently called for the trainer . we will keep you posted . however , it does n't prevent her moving into a 40-0 lead , before a scintillating cross-court backhand hands her the game .
azarenka makes her move after kirilenko double-faults , driving a backhand down the line . however , the russian responds superbly to take three points in a row , firing down two hefty first serves , but she has no luck with the net cord , which forces her to fire the ball wide . azarenka 's power continues to be relentless and she brings up break point , but it is saved by yet another big first serve under pressure , which is repeated two points later . the duo then trade winners and we are into a fifth deuce . kirilenko double-faults once more , but a stunning forehand saves it for the third time in the game , and she finally holds on when azarenka nets a backhand on the defensive .
azarenka looks almost despondent as he concedes the first two points of the game , and that continues when she mis-cues a backhand return . that will be encouraging for kirilenko , who records a love-service hold .
both players make errors on the opening two points to exchange mini-breaks , before a backhand winner seizes an early lead for azarenka . she strikes some damaging blows to wrestle another point away from her opponent , and a fourth double-fault from kirilenko leaves her up against it . another error from kirilenko gives azarenka a 5-1 lead at the change of ends .
azarenka sweeps into a 30-0 lead , before her second double fault of the match gives kirilenko some encouragement . the russian proceeds to go long on the next point , before netting a first serve from her opponent .
kirilenko fails to return the opening two points , but a lovely cross-court shot loops just over the net for 30-15. the russian 's movement looks relatively ok in chasing down a azarenka smash , but she can not prevent her opponent leveling things up at 4-4 .
that 's more promising from the russian , who sends a fine forehand from the baseline shooting past azarenka , and an error sees her move 30-0 up . she looks much more confident in this game , and an unreturnable first serve hands her the game .
a sharp backhand volley hands azarenka the opening point , before a rocket of a return from kirilenko levels things up . the next two points are shared , before azarenka displays the kind of quality that has seen her win two major titles to secure the game .
azarenka is serving to stay in the set , and that is a super first point , drilling a forehand into the corner . some aggressive hitting from her opponent makes it 15-15 , but a neat one-two from the belarusian sees her regain the advantage . we are at deuce after some smart play from kirilenko , but she is n't so smart when she lets a ball go thinking that it was going to go long . azarenka takes the game when her opponent nets and we move to 5-5 after an hour 's play .
the power on show in some of these rallies would n't look out of place on the atp tour . both players trade baseline shots , and azarenka has a 30-15 lead with two winners . kirilenko then goes long , before a weak return allows the belarusian to walk in and smash the winner . news from today 's other quarter-final , and it is a stunning scoreline on philippe chatrier . jelena jankovic has taken the first set against maria sharapova 6-0 !
that could be the game that breaks the resolve of kirilenko , who sends three service returns wide of the mark to hand azarenka 40-0 without having to work for it . the trend continues on the next point , and all of a sudden , the number three seed is just two games away from the last four .